This is Jockel Podcasts number 116 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening,
echo. Good evening. So this then was the culmination. To die. Die in the stinking mud.
Twice before I'd crossed this no man's land darting from shell hole to shell hole. I'm
no hero. I was numb with fear. But this time a barrage was on. I lay there at the wasteland's edge
thinking. Was there any way to the right, late crack, shot snipers to the left in the brush,
machine guns, hungry, waiting, and fair in the front great bursting mud clouds playing toss
with bodies. Get through once more, son. The Colonel had said, communications down,
our guns firing short killing our boys. Yes, it must be done. But how? Wait. The barrage sweeping across
the field and back a deadly windshield wiper where I'd to follow it down and when I returned,
dig in. I might. Now drunk with fighting fear. I chased the mud cloud down the field,
kicking dead bodies, twisting like a ghost. And I laughed and I yelled you bastards, you can't get me.
The are trenches ahead, almost there. Back came hells when she'll wiper, vomiting death,
and I dug in, dug in with all I had. Mom, dear God help me. On it came, 40 feet, 20 feet,
God, my head torn from my body. Is this what being dead is like peace, quiet,
clean white sheets. My head must still be here. It hurts me. These must be my fingers. I can move them
and now a voice. My boy, for you, the war is over. You hear that, mom?
I'm still alive. I did not die. I'm coming home. And that is a poem that was written by a
man by the name of Ralph Mone of East Machiaus, Maine, who left his job as a civil engineer in
waterville, Maine to enlist in the army in 1917. And he was wounded badly on that day, but he did live.
And he was decorated for his actions on that day in the citation for his award reads,
the president of the United States of America authorized by active Congress, 9 July 1918,
takes pleasure in presenting the distinguished service cross to mechanic Ralph T. Mone,
United States Army for extraordinary heroism in action while serving with company K.
103rd Infantry Regiment, 26 Division American Expeditionary Force,
near Raeville, France, 26 September 1918. Mechanic Mone, who is detailed as a runner,
made several trips carrying important messages across terrain swept by constant fire from
machine guns, snipers, trench mortars, and artillery. His disregard for personal safety and
devotion to duty in the prompt delivery of messages contributed greatly to the success of the action.
And Ralph Mone, according to his family, never spoke of the war to his children or his grandchildren.
But he did live with it every day. And tonight I am honored to have a guest
back on the podcast, who is also wounded in war, but who has not let that stop him in any way.
From driving on with his mission and his life and doing more than most people could ever
even imagine. Mr. Rob Jones, a Marine, a wounded warrior, and an inspiration to anyone that's
lucky enough to come into contact with him. Rob Jones, welcome back to the show.
Hey, you know what? It's an honor to be just a single-time guest on what I consider to be the best
podcast on the airways. But to be a two-time guest is purely rarefire air. I'm just
I appreciate you guys deeming me worthy of a second visit. So, as you compare to
that gentleman is even greater on or so. Yeah, you know, I read that a while back and it was one of
those things as I was reading it. I was thinking about you, I was thinking about, you know,
I was thinking about Jodi, thinking about Travis, thinking about you guys that were wounded bad
and and I've heard that before in another is another book I read about World War One,
where guys they wake up, they think they're in heaven because they see white sheets and they see
you know, there's a nurse there that's talking to icy to him and they think they're dead,
they think they're in heaven. And that reminded me, you know, when I read that, I was thinking
about you and and haven't we waking up, you know, in a hospital somewhere and I know you actually woke
up, you're not supposed to wake up in Germany, but you did. No, you're not supposed to, but
you have for whatever reason, I woke up. I think I need to drink a water. You know,
need to hydrate. Yeah, I'm not sure why I woke up. I don't remember much, but and the
I didn't definitely didn't see anybody you could mistake for an angel or an adult squalidor.
Yeah, well for anyone that's listening that hasn't listened to the first time Robo's on
go back and listen to episode 92 and that's where we go through what Robo went through,
how is raised, you know, growing up, joined the Marine Corps, deployment to Iraq, deployment to Afghanistan
and that's where Robo's wounded, hit an ID and ended up losing both legs above the knee, but
like I said, that didn't stop Rob and he went from that and in the podcast, we jumped really
quickly through sort of your healing process and we jumped right into the fact that you were
went out did the the Paralympics as a roar and we jumped into the fact that you rode a bicycle
across America, which is yeah across America during the polar vortex, by the way, yeah that's
all that stuff is covered in 92, but I was actually going back and I was listening to 92 and I realized
that you know, maybe it's just your attitude that might have made me kind of do this in the conversation,
your attitude is like, yeah, I lost both my legs and then I was just competing in the Paralympics.
You know, you made it sound like it's like it was easy, that's the way it kind of came across
in the podcast and what I wanted to do today was kind of at least go back and talk a little with
a little bit more detail about that process of going because it's a long process, right?
You're in a half, yeah, for me anyway. Yeah, a year and a half of from letting the wounds heal
all the way through, you know, where now you're competing in the Paralympics and you're getting
around in your mobile and all that. So you get back, how long does it take for your wounds?
Could you can't do anything until your wounds are healed up, right? No, I mean, well, you can do some
stuff. You can't do anything as far as prosthetics are concerned. So in the beginning, you know,
the physical therapist would come in and they just basically just have me move my stumps around
and that would be like, you know, lift your right stump 10 times, lift your left one,
move it out and back and then that would be it for the day. Or, you know, I could do, you know,
my arm store work. So I would do little pull-ups on my little trapeze bar that I had attached to the
the bed. But yeah, as you know, surgeries every other day, they just come in and take me over and
they would just be this clean in the wound out and he did tissue or anything that was still
left and there they cleaned that out. But I had these wound back machines on that were just
constantly sucking the fluids out of the wounds because they were they were open for the first month.
And yeah, so they were just like, kind of sucking that stuff out and it's just a, you know,
waiting game at that point. I mean, you can do some stuff. Like, I figured out how to,
it's slowly got to kind of three figured out how to move my body around and move my legs around
to get comfortable and where you getting like the fan of pains. Yeah, I didn't get it as bad as
Travis had it. I never had to do a, uh, what was it? A ketamine coma in order to, uh, I had it
some, um, and they gave me this stuff called Lyrica, which is like a fiber myology of medication.
And I got it and I never really had it all that bad. It's like, it's pretty much at the same level.
It is, is is now where every, maybe twice a day, my toe will kind of like hurt pretty bad for
four, five seconds and that's it. But there's some people that have it a lot worse. So I kind of
lucked out with that. But yeah, so first month is kind of learning how to get into the wheelchair,
you know, at first I wouldn't, I couldn't, I was so sore. I couldn't really move very much. And so
I had to have a nurse and whoever was in their visiting me if I want to get my wheelchair, I'd be
sitting on this little pad. And I'd say, all right, I want to go for a roll. And then so they would,
the nurse would be on one side and the other person would be on the side and they kind of like
scoot me onto the wheelchair. And then we'd have to take the wound back machines and hook them onto
the wheelchair and take my catheter, which I was very, very protective of that catheter.
Uh, hang that on there. And then, uh, the IV pole would have to come with me. And so then I would just
kind of roll myself around the world a couple times with, you know, my dad or my mom or somebody
pushing the IV pole. And yeah, I just do that a couple times. Then I'd go see my buddy Daniel,
because he couldn't get out of bed yet. So I go and see, visit him for a little bit and I go back to
my room and that'd be pretty much my exercise for the day. And then have like six milkshakes.
This, uh, eaten as much as I possibly could to help with the healing process.
You know, where did you go through the whole woe is me? Why did this happen to me?
Did you go through that at all? And I mean, I know I've listened to some of your stuff and
reading some of your stuff, you know, you talk about the fact that you knew you had to just move
to like an acceptance phase immediately. Is that, is that what you did? I mean, how did you get
look, man, people hit all kinds of freaking roadblocks in life and, and very few of them are as heavy
of, and big of a roadblock as you hit and you seem to power through that thing like,
miraculously. You know, I don't, I never, I never entered into an extended period that could be described as like,
uh, depression or woe is me, you know, feeling sorry for myself. It would come in very short waves,
where, you know, I'd be sitting around. I would struggle with something maybe.
And then after I figured it out, I might sit there for a couple of minutes, be like, man.
But that'd be about it. And then would be go away after you know, minute or two. It'd be kind of like,
uh, I'd almost kind of like if you're, if you're talking to a girl in a bar and you like your voice
cracked, you just totally blow it and you look like an idiot and then you go back to the
team and like, man, sure. Like that. It was, it was almost kind of like that. Or just like, man, how did I
have I missed that IED, you know, man, the sucks. But, and I, you know, I didn't really think about it
probably this way at the time. I couldn't articulate it at the time like this, but it's like,
that whether or not, you know, I deserved, I, you know, I, you know, I, I could acknowledge, I didn't
deserve it. I didn't deserve to be a double-impitee. I didn't, uh, it wasn't, you know, fair. There's a lot
of other guys that were running around in that same exact area. They didn't step on it. So it wasn't
necessarily fair that I had to be an, uh, an MPT. I didn't want to be an MPT, but
none of that mattered. Um, it did, none of that had any bearing on whether or not I wanted to
have an enjoyable life. And I did. I sat there and I was like, well, what is my mission in life?
If you really take it to its base level, you know, have an impact, uh, enjoy my life. That doesn't
change just because now I'm an MPT. And whether or not it's fair or the fact that I'm starting from a,
you know, a little bit more of a disadvantage position now. All that stuff has no bearing on
whether or not I want to accomplish my mission. And so realizing that you just kind of, well,
what do I have to do now? That stuff's in the past. So all I can really affect is how I react to it.
And, you know, so I think that's kind of how I, I skip all that stuff.
Did you, I know, um, one, one thing that I remember and, you know, one of my guys Ryan Jobe,
he got, he got shot in the face and he got gravely wounded and, you know, he ended up blind.
And, um, he went down with a lot of casualties that had a guy that had really bad brain injuries.
Right. And he was there for a little while. And, you know, these were guys that had been severely wounded.
And like I said, had severe brain injuries. So they're having trouble communicating. They're having trouble
with motor skills. And, and these almost all the time come with other physical injuries. And, you know,
his attitude was, hey, look, I'm taking up a bed here. And, and we should give it to someone else.
These guys are having a much harder time than me. I'm lucky. Because I didn't get that injury.
All I got was blind. And, you know, some, some damage to my face. But, right.
It was, it was amazing to me to see a guy like Ryan Jobe who just looked at him
himself and said, I'm lucky. I'm lucky. Those guys are worse off than me. Trying to give your
efforts to take care of these other guys instead of trying to take care of me. I can, I can do okay.
Open up this bed for someone else to send me to a, send me somewhere else. And, that's what they did.
And, I think that, you know, that attitude of like, hey, this could be much worse, right. And,
to me, first of all, hearing him talk about that was, was a testament to like the spirit of a guy
that just is going to carry on and drive on. And, the things that he did before he died
were, was amazing. You know, he graduated college with like, with like a straight A grade point
average, he got married. He, you know, his wife got pregnant. He's, he got a job with a defense
contract. And, he was like totally on the path and crushing it. Despite the fact that he had,
you know, one of the best excuses someone could have. Hey, I got wounded in a loss division. It
didn't, didn't slow him down at all. He climbed around Mount Rainier. He just did amazing things. And,
his attitude of look, I'm in a bad place, not that bad. I'm going to push on and, and like you said,
this isn't going to, this isn't going to stop me from having a great life and, and getting after it,
basically. Yeah. So, a couple of things. I'm glad you brought that up because there's definitely
something to my own recovery during the time where I got there. So, it's kind of like, I almost had a
a feedback loop on myself. So, I got, I was immediately thinking about even in the blast critters.
I was like, one of my first thoughts was like, my mom's going to be pretty upset about this.
And when I woke up in Germany, the one thing that I did was I asked for a stupid hat. I was like,
my squad leader is there and I said, see if you can find a stupid look in hat that I can wear
when I come out of the ambulance that when my mom sees me for the first time, she'll see this
stupid hat and maybe it'll make her laugh a little bit. But, you know, obviously they didn't find one.
And, but I think what happened was I had a good attitude in the first week or two. And then
that kind of set a precedent for myself. And all my friends that came in, all my family that
came in saw me with that solid positive attitude and that, you know, that gave them hope at the same
time. So, they had that hope and then I kind of went on and there was times, you know,
they saw me already like that. So, there was ever a time where I was feeling sorry for myself or anything
like that. I was like, you know what? My mom, my dad, all these people have already seen me be
in positive and if I flip that around, then that's going to hurt them now. And so I have to keep
that in mind. So, when I'm, it's not really about, well, it's not only about me. So,
that force, that's force me to make sure I maintain my positive attitude because, you know,
they're depending on me. I'm depending on them at the same time. So, they're depending on me to
say positive so that they can stay positive. And so, it kind of we kind of fed off each other.
And so, you know, that just kind of snowballed, I guess, until, you know, here we are.
Now, you get, so, so you're talking like a month of milkshakes and good milk, they weren't
mint chocolate chip, but they were good, you know. And you're just feeding yourself, you're trying
to heal up, get the wounds to actually heal. And every time you go around, every time you leave
your bed, it's a gut check because you got to, you know, do the wound draining and all that other stuff.
And then after a month, things are starting to heal up. And at what point did you,
were you able to like get yourself out, get yourself in the wheelchair?
I think I was probably after that first, so I was, I spent a week in the ICU,
you know, high on morphine, I don't remember much from that time period. And then I get to the
ward. And probably after that first week, maybe 10 days on the main ward, I'd be like,
alright, I'm going to try and do this myself, guys. And then it took five times the length of
time, but I did it. And then from then on, I was doing it on my own. And so, yeah, and that was kind
of the biggest milestone for, you know, being in the hospital during that healing period,
was being able to do that. And then, so, and then, you know, as they slowly took tubes away.
And then the final milestone for being in the hospital at that point was when my wounds were
finally sutured, closed. And I got the skin graft. I'd take a skin graft from my left leg and
put it on the inside of my right thigh. And once they did that, and that was as they healed that,
they checked it out. Make sure it was good. Then I was ready to be transferred over to
Walthera. But I still had stitches. All in my or staples, staples are stitches, one or two.
And so, after that was done, that's when they transferred me over to Walthera. And even then,
I still had to wait for those stitches to come out before I could get fitted for prosthetics.
And I was probably in the inpatient hospital for another two weeks, while I waited for a room
to open up in the outpatient housing. So, it was pretty similar in those first two weeks.
I just had the IV line that's all I had. And, you know, I could go out.
Are they pumping you with antibiotics the whole time? What do they, what do they got an IV in you for?
Pain, medication. Okay. Um, and I think it's probably just a stand with the distinct case.
Something goes wrong. They can, they have quick access. My buddy Daniel, he had a pick line
to like straight into his heart. What's that? It's just, I think it's just a, uh, a tube. They just put it
straight, put it into your chest. And I guess maybe it's just for quicker access for pain medication.
So, I'd be in the hospital at first month. And, you know, they gave you the pain button. So, you
can kind of control yourself. And to be funny, because they, they, it only meters out so much in an hour.
You can hit it like once every five minutes or something. But in the first week, I'd be
kind of passing out. And I, whenever I woke up, I'd hit it a couple times just to make sure I
get in that dosage because I was scared. Like, what happens if this pain button goes away? Like,
I don't want to face that. And so they'd come in after an hour in the nurse say, you know,
you can only hit this thing like that's every five minutes. Like, yeah, yeah, I know.
So, what you've hit it like $200. The last hour. Oh, you know, I just hit it just, you know, I fall asleep.
Yeah. And so then during that time, when you, when you were still had like stitches,
but, and I know we talked about this a little bit, but you add like the triangle thing hanging
above you. You start doing pull ups and you start trying to do some kind of upper body or
work out at that time. Yeah. I mean, once I got to walk through, I met my physical therapist that day.
And we set up the time I was going to come in seven o'clock for Archipassional Therapy,
eight o'clock with physical therapy. And we'd be just doing stuff on the mat tables. So you don't have
to be wearing legs and you can be working on other stuff while you're waiting for that stuff to heal.
So yeah, I'd be doing kind of dips. I've raised my the arms and my wheelchair up really high and I do dips.
And, you know, they had stuff you could do like a trunk strengthening exercises. You know, I,
I was the first double above knee amputee to come through all three. We've been at war for nine
years. So they had this, all of these exercises already set up. So I'd come in and I do my exercises
lay a legless for the day and this work on what I could while we waited for that stuff to
while we waited for my skin. We were just waiting on my skin basically to heal. How did you feel like
how did you feel regaining your strength in your upper body? Were you like, were you like back
on the gains path? You don't have any? Were you like, okay, I just did, you know, yesterday I did
eight pull ups and today I'm going to do 10 and the next day I'm going to, did you get, did you get
yourself right back in like the old school workout mode for? Oh yeah, just back on the path.
Yeah, man, when I was still in, when I was still in the hospital at Bethesda,
I, I would go in a physical thing, but you guys got to pull up bar or anything like that.
And yeah, we have one, they had one and like a closet. And I was, and I saw, I want to do some
pull ups. And so I set the pull-up record for people that had come through and they got broken
by a seal later. But, so yeah, I set that pull up. Let me see, I've never lost the, the desire to
see what I could do. You know, I was like, yeah, I'm going to do a max set of pull ups and see how
many I could do still. But yeah, I was definitely frustrating because I was, I lost a lot of muscle
mass. But, you know, once you start doing those exercises like every time I came in, I wanted to go
at one more or two more or a little bit longer. And I had that same attitude when I started walking,
you know, the first day I started walking. I'd maybe stood my legs for two minutes. The next day
I was like, you know, I'm going to try three minutes today. Or last the yesterday I walked one time
around the little track, I'm going to go twice, you know, just slowly build it up and, you know,
keep that same. So what's that process? Like getting, getting, standing up for the first time,
what does that feel like? It's wild. I mean, the first thing you got to do is you got to get
casted. So they have to make the sockets that go onto your stumps. And they do it, they, they,
they wrap this plaster around your stump and they, uh, mold it so that it's put in pressure on the
right spots. And they take that off. They fill it up with some other kind of plaster material.
Uh, they take the, the cast that they made off and then they pour plastic around it then.
So then you have your, basically, the mold of your leg. And the first time you, the first time you
step up in it, it did not comfortable at all. It hurts a lot because you're putting pressure on
points that you didn't before and they kind of have to, so you stand up and you're like, okay,
well, there's a spot right back there that hurts a lot. So they take it off and they
use this hair dryer, make it hot and they kind of mold it. They push it out against. So it's not
against that spot anymore. And then you put it back on, okay, that's comfortable. And then you do it
for the other one. And for me, yeah, I mean, I could, you could, you can't, I couldn't just walk
from the first try ahead to have my arms on the, on the, uh, the parallel bars. It like it was,
you know, that slow thing that you see kind of in movies where I took maybe 10 steps. And that was it
for my first time. I walk five. Is it like balance or is it, is it a little bit musculature? Like,
is it your, do you use in different muscles? Yeah. So you definitely, you're walking in a different way
then your body's designed to. So when you walk, you just go, you know, kind of forward and back
your with your legs, you're bend it the knee to get it past the ground. So it doesn't skip on the
ground. Whereas when you're double above knee, APT, uh, you have to swing your legs out to the side
at first because you don't have that knee joint. You can't just bring them, you know, forward.
So you kind of have to learn that. And it's a lot of the balance. You're, your musculature has to kind
of get used to what muscles you're using to keep your balance now. So that has to be figured out by
your, you know, brain and your spinal cord. And then on top of that, just developing the resistance
to the, the discomfort. It's really not comfortable. And that's kind of probably what I didn't get
tired. Like I could have stood for longer, but it's just my legs were hurting so bad. Yeah, like you,
you could run a mile or you could run a marathon or whatever, but if you're, if you're, if you have
a blister on your toe, you know, then that's going to stop you. Yeah, it's, it seems like the balance thing.
Like sometimes I've hurt my, like, let's say hurt my ankle or hurt my, even something as stupid
as hurt, like had a big cut on my on the bottom of my foot. Yeah. And so you can't use your foot
the way you normally do. And it totally throws off your balance. And I can't even imagine you're,
you're now trying to balance through the, through the perception of your nerves in your, in your
stumps. Yeah. And, and how that feels and how you got to kind of adjust for that. That's got to be
like learning how to, like, skier something, learning how to do a balanced type sport, surf or
something like that. I can, I can only imagine that that's got to be what it's like to get your
brain. And like you said, your brain, your spinal cord to be able to adapt to what's happening
underneath you when you, you have a totally new set of sensors down there now. Yeah. And you have to
also keep, keep, keep, keep for a double above knee, and all the stuff I'm saying is just double above
knee, and VT's. But you're also losing two joints that help with balance. So,
an able body person, they have if they want to make a small adjustment, they use their ankle.
And then they can use the knee. And then they can use the hip. But, you know, double above knee,
we all we have is the hip. So it's an extra challenge learning how to make these adjustments with just
just your hips. But, you know, it's a lot like a dog that has a missing leg. You know, the first
time he goes to walk. He kind of just figures it out. And he learns that new method. And it's kind
of, it's pretty much a similar thing. You, you know, you adapt to it. And you just do figure it out.
And on the first prosthetics that you get are they articulated or they just like straight,
because I know what you've got now is pretty, they look pretty damn advanced to me. Yeah. I mean,
I was just fancy you can get. Yeah. You look in like freaking term terminator robot over there.
So what are you getting that first? Because is it articulating? Because, no. So yeah,
it's in the balance in that realm, they keep you really short. While you're re-learning that
balance, because just in case you fall. So while you're re-learning that balance, they keep you
really short. So basically, if I was going to fall, I just put my hand out pretty much and
catch myself on the ground. And so while you're re-learning this balance, they keep you nice and
short, because your center gravity is going to be lower. So it's a lot easier. And then also,
you kind of learn that hit motion. So they keep you nice and short just to make it a lot easier.
And then as you get better, as you get stronger and a little bit better moving around, they make
you a little bit taller. But there's no need joint. It's just, you go from your socket. And
there's a straight cylindrical pie lawn made out of metal. And that goes with a prosthetic foot.
And you probably have a shoe on the foot. And then that's it. So you stay really short for three
four months. And at this time, are you already thinking about, like, what kind of crazy stuff you're
going to do? What you figure this shit out? Once I had found out about the Paralympics,
that was probably my first week when I was at Bethesda in the hospital bed,
just researching, I wanted to get back in the gym. And I didn't know what I could,
what I'd still be able to do in the gym. So I was maybe looking for,
I forget what I searched, but like disabled sports or disabled working out or something like that.
And I found the Paralympics. And at the time, I wasn't saying to myself, I'm definitely going to
commit to going, because I didn't know much about it. And I still had this big, I still had to take,
you know, a year and a half to, to really learn how to walk. And that was numerous, oh no,
to learn how to do. But yeah, it was kind of in the back of my head. I had found about it.
And I was thinking about, that's kind of how things work for me. I, the idea is impregnated initially.
And like, okay, okay, that's an interesting idea. You know, Paralympics, okay, that's interesting.
I go riding my bike cross-country. Okay, interesting. And then, I think about a little bit more
and time goes on. I think, you, I, like, probably do that, you know, and then eventually,
I'll get to a point where like, all right, I'm going to do it. And then I commit to it.
And so at this point, you know, I hadn't committed to it. But I was researching and, you know,
contemplating and figuring out the feasibility and, you know, how I would go about it if I wanted
to try and make the attempt. That seems like that would have a massive positive impact
on your mindset. So something that I've talked about, I talked about with Jordan Peterson and,
he agreed with me on this idea of finding a new mission and having a new mission. So a lot of
times, I'm sure you've seen this too. I've definitely seen it when guys get out of the military
for whatever reason, when they get out the guys that do well are the guys that have a new mission
to go on. And whether it's a new job or whether they're going to be a super dad or whether they're
going to go to school and get good grades, those guys do good. And in their new mission,
the guys that have the most trouble from what I've seen most of the time is the guys that don't have
a new mission. They get out and they say, well, you know, I might do this, I might do that,
I might do something else, but what they're really doing is nothing. They don't have any real
direction and then up, you know, what's the mission? The mission becomes have another drink,
you know, do something unproductive, do what feels good immediately and it becomes problematic.
But it seems like the fact that you found something immediately, you realize that there was a
goal that you could go after, even if it was only a little idea at first. That idea can carry you
a long way. Yeah, and you know, also luckily for me, it wasn't like it was, it's not like I was
in Afghanistan one day and then separated the next day. I kind of had a mission that was, you know,
it came above about by its own because, you know, I just lost my legs. But first mission was
to learn how to walk. So I had that right away. But, you know, while I was taking that time to
do that, I was thinking about, you know, what I'm going to do after I get out. You know, every
guy that gets out of the military, you know, most of the time, you know, when your contract's
going to end, so you can start thinking about it earlier. But it's definitely, you know, I agree
with you having something to work towards is hugely important. See, I'll tell you that, even
what you just said, so there's people that they get out and you're saying, hey, I had this new
mission because I had to at least learn how to walk. There's people that they get out and they
don't have a new mission and they don't figure one out and that becomes so problematic. And
you know what, let's not just apply it to the military, I'll apply this to every human being.
Happens, kids get out of college, happens, kids get out of high school, happens when you go through,
you know, you've got something that you're looking at or something that you're focused on,
in boom, it goes away. Well, now what are you going to do? And if you don't line something up and
don't focus on something, you don't take aim at something or then you're not going anywhere.
Oh, yeah. It's like when you're, you know, how you shoot, do you guys call it table two?
When you're kind of working on a shooting, like targets that are right in front of you?
We don't call it table two. We call it table two is table one is kind of the long distance
driver range. Okay. But it's almost kind of like when you're when you're doing that and you,
they say, okay, shoot this guy twice in that guy twice. So you do that. And then at the end, you
scan and make sure there's nobody else around. It's kind of like doing that. Your mission is
the shoot the thing, but you also have to be looking out for other stuff. Yeah. Yeah. No, absolutely.
You know, it's, it's funny too, because I think about like when you think about kids that you
grew up with and like high school, they get done with high school. And there's some kids that
oh, I'm going to go in the college. I'm going to go to military. Yeah. There's some kids that don't
know what they're going to do after high school. And what happens to it? You know, what happens to them?
They, they, they, they flounder around. They get a little job here that they don't really like. They
do something else that they don't really like. You just have to be careful with that. Yeah. You have to be
careful. And I'd say as a parent, that's just something to look out for too. You know, you
gotta look out for your kids and make sure your kids have something to focus on, have something that
they're striving for. Because if you don't have anything to strive for, if you're not trying to
go anywhere, if you're not on some kind of mission, that's this problematic. Yeah. And, you know,
so since I had that, everything I did during the day mattered to me because I had something that
was vastly important to me that I was trying to achieve. So if I didn't care about whether or
not I walked again, then I could just roll around in my wheelchair and it wouldn't matter if I
worked out that day. But since I really, I learned how to walk again and be totally independent,
and get rid of my wheelchair and all that stuff, and be able to run and do everything I was able
to do before. That was, you know, the most important thing. And so I fed off that when,
you know, I didn't feel like going into therapy because I was my backer to whatever. And the,
you know, whether or not I do that third, fourth set of balanced drills or, you know, strengthening
exercises, you know, that had an effect on that goal. And so, and the same thing with going to
the parallel in the picks, you know, I wanted to be able to explore that. And so the stuff I was
doing in the hospital, it mattered. So this is interesting because we're actually talking about this
the other day. So you end up with, and again, I'm just trying to break down because obviously
you're a person that that can push through pain and suffering and push through short-term
challenges in order to achieve a long-term goal. And I think that the way you break it down is
you're looking even when you're suffering from a challenge right now, you're, you know,
I don't feel like doing another balance to your drill because my back is sore or whatever.
Yeah. Well, people hit those kind of obstacles every single day. You know, they don't want to
get up in the morning. They don't want to work out. They don't want to do the last set, etc, etc.
But you had, you tie those small-term short-term things, the short-term pain,
because you have a long-term goal. That's, you really care about.
Yeah, exactly. I mean, it's, it's all a matter of what matters to you most. You know,
what's more important to you learning, or for me, learning how to walk again, or
staying in bed today. You know, staying in bed would be nice. It would feel good. I'd be able to watch.
I think what I was watching on Netflix, I was watching 24 of the series at the time on the
Netflix. So I could watch an entire series of 24 today or something. And I could do that,
and that would be fun. But at the end of the day, I'm still not going to be any closer to
being able to walk again. And I would much rather be able to walk everywhere I went
totally independently than find out what happens to Jack Bauer. So, and then, you know, at the same
time, you know, if you're working on what people like to, if you want to lose weight, you know,
do you, would you rather have a milkshake, my mint chocolate milkshake, or would you rather,
or a cookie dough milkshake? Would you rather have that milkshake, or would you rather,
you know, be able to run 10 miles or not get winded when you're walking with your kids,
or being a plane with your kids, is that what, which one matters to you more? And I always pick
that bigger one because, I mean, it's pretty straightforward for me. Yeah, the delayed
gratification is the delayed gratification versus the insul gratification. The delayed, but much more
enjoyable. Yeah, much more dribble definitely better and better for your whole life. Yeah,
last longer, two by the way. Yeah. Yep. And in during, it's an enduring, lasting, longer, lasting,
enduring thing that you end up with. That's what people need to tap into. That right there.
That's good how you have a, like, a way, like, almost like a, I don't know, say scaffolding,
but like a way to look at it. Like how you, when you're presented with like an option,
you're, you're, you're conscious of it. Be you have a way to look at it where you're like,
okay, which one is important to me? Which one? You know, is Jack Bauer and 24 important to you,
or is walking important to me? You know, so most people, they just go on how they feel,
you know, I really don't feel like doing this. So I'll do this. Or I really am in the mood for
this. So I'll do it kind of thing. They don't like kind of, you know, we break it down like how you do.
Just, just from moment to moment where you'll be like, okay, I have this way to look at it and
I'm going to look at it this way. And then I can read or behave, you know? That actually is helpful.
That's pretty good way of looking at it. You put it into a binary calculation. Yeah.
Right? Just, there's two options. Yeah. Don't go like, am I going to do the thing that's going to make,
make me better in the long run or the thing that's going to make me worse in the long run?
And feels good right now. Which one are you going to do? This is just baked that into a binary
decision. Yeah. But you can make it really. So simple. Which one's important to me? And it's
almost like a black or white. You know, which one looks more driving you? What's a driving your
behavior? And then you can even take another step. Again, like the losing the weight.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You will either want to have the milkshake or you want to be able to,
you know, walk around with you. Even if you don't care about, you know, being overweight or
you're not being able to move your body around. You know, you can still lose the weight by
figuring out what even if you don't feel like going on a diet. Like, what is it that necessitates
you to go on the diet? And for me, so I didn't want necessarily to train every day for the
Paralympics. I didn't necessarily want to ride my bike every day on my bike ride or run. I didn't
necessarily enjoy doing that. I didn't feel like doing it. But I had to do that because my goal
necessitated me to do that. So if you're struggling to get motivated to lose weight just for the
sake of losing weight, find something that necessitates you to lose weight that really matters to you.
Like, you know, not dying when you're 55 of a heart attack. That'll do it. There's there's
three things that you talked about on the last podcast. But I kind of breathed it, breathed over them.
And I realized when I listened to it again, I should have talked to you a little bit more in depth
because I think it's helpful for people to hear. Again, to hear from you who's overcome
incredible challenges, there's three things that you talked about. And it's actually in the journal
which you have a journal online on Rob Jones journey.com. But and this is there as well. But
number one is writing down goals. Number two is celebrating milestones. And number three is
overcoming rationalization. So let's just break those down a little bit. How strict were you
with writing down your goals? And do you still do that? Um, I don't, I guess I don't physically
have a pen and paper and write it down. I think what I do now is I'll announce it or something like
that or I'll make it known that that's what I'm planning on doing. Check. So when I decided to do my
marathon challenge, I did it on Facebook or something or I'd put it on all my social media platforms
and then it's out there. Now, okay, now I'm responsible for this. So you're being, this is beyond
writing it down. Yes, it's like writing it down and it sounds to the world. Yeah, or telling people
that you want to have the respect of like if I told my wife Pam, like I, I'm going to do this and
she, she knows I'm a person that she respects me for living up to what I say I'm going to do.
I don't want to lose her respect. So now even, even though I would have done it, regardless,
I'm not saying I would have said I would do it and then that fall out or back out.
I, you know, the mission, even if the mission became not important to me, there's another
another aspect of that, you know, you've committed to it. And so that's another aspect of my
personality where not only do I want to help veterans, but now I've committed to some of my
said I'm going to do and I've given my word. And now there's people that are kind of relying on me
to do that. And if I, if I say I'm going to do it, then I say, oh, I'll never mind. I actually,
I'm not going to do it. Then they're actually losing a little bit of hope maybe because they
were, they were hoping I was going to do it and they were going to get something out of it. Now,
now they're, they're, I'm not doing it. So they're kind of losing that benefit. Yeah,
it's, yeah, so it's beyond writing it down. It's writing it down or announcing,
announcing it, celebrating milestones. Yeah. So it's really hard to stay motivated when there's this
obscure goal that is two years away or a year and a half away. And you're not really seeing
huge progress towards every, you get like a millimeter every day. It gets old. You feel really
motivated in the beginning, right? Because you're pumped up and you have tons of energy. And then
when you, and at the end, you can see it, you can smell the barn, you can see it. So you find the extra
energy in your, in yourself. But in that, that middle part where you're not, you're not even sure
that you're going to be able to do it. And it's so far away. Like, man, I'm only like half way.
And I still have, I've done all this stuff. And now I still have to do all that again.
And it helps to pick stuff along the way that you know is going to, to be there that kind of, you know,
all right, I'm not, I'm going for that far away thing. But right now I'm going to that. And that's what
excites me. So when I was in the hospital getting in the wheelchair was my first little milestone.
Yeah, I had a year and I didn't even know how long was in to take me to learn how to walk again,
at least, I was thinking, like a year and a half, two years. You know, that's a long time and with a lot
of work in between. So, all right, right now, just get into the wheelchair. And then, all right, well,
learn how to do it on your own. And then after that, get your legs and then
figure out how to walk with only one cane and set a two canes keeping you up. And then drop the other
cane and that's another milestone. And then you get your bionic knees. And so you
probably go back to the canes for a while. And then when you have those, you take away that
cane and then take away the other one. And then you learn how to run and then you learn how to do
ride the bike or whatever. So you just keep finding little things along the way. And you know,
when I was doing, when I was training for triathlons, I'd do this on a small scale. I would have
eight, two minute all out sprints on my bike to do. I'd be sitting there on the first one and like,
oh my god, I have eight of these to do. I've been the first one, which is blowing me up.
I've got, I've seven more. And I would just be like, you know what, just focus on this next one.
Just do this one. And then we'll focus on the next one after that. And then so does,
and I would even trick myself sometimes. I'd be like, all right, I would be on my six
one. I'd be so tired. I'm the arc, you know what? If I can maintain this speed, or if I can
maintain my power output for this entire seventh one, I'll skip the eighth one. I'll treat myself.
I'll skip the eighth one. I do the seventh one, but I do the eighth one because, you know,
I do that sometimes. I do my self, you know. You work. So yeah.
So it's interesting. So what you've talked with this dichotomy in this thing, and I've talked about this before,
I've talked about before multiple times. I don't even know if I've talked about the, I must talk about the
podcast, but I've talked about it with people, which is you have long-range stuff, and you have short-range
stuff. And what you have to do is you have to put the both rows in your mind, and you have to shift
the focus back on for, back and forth between the two, to whichever one is going to get you moving.
Because when the goal is too far away, you're like, you know, one is not going to really make a
difference if I skip this thing today. It's not that big of a deal. The goal is too far away. It
gets blurry. And so what you need is you need to put, okay, just to do this short goal.
Well, after the daily grind beats you down on the short goal, you start to forget what the long-term
goal is. And you guys, you know what? I don't really need to do this workout today, or I don't need to
do, I can eat this food or I can do whatever because it's not going to make a big impact on the long
thing. You know, what am I doing anyways? Then you got to look back at the long goal. And that's
right. I have this, this thing that I'm trying to make happen. And it's these small goals that are
going to get me there. So you've got to shift, you've got to have both the long-term goal. That's
got to be something that you really want to achieve. You got to understand why, you know, like you
said, you got to understand why it is you want to achieve it. You can't just be something that you don't
care about. And then you got to have that as your primary driving force, but your secondary driving
force, which is equally important is these short-term things that you can get to that are there,
that are close, that are you can achieve, even if it's two minutes. Even if it's, I did to
about to, to bought on the airbike the other day. Bro, yeah, I was there. I was like, you know,
and my daughter was there. My restful daughter that wrestles, she was there. And so she's kind of like
calling me out. But then it apostated. She's like a positive person. Yeah, right, man. Yeah, she was
hyping me. And I put out hard because she was there. Come on. You know what it's like when your
your daughter's going to come on dad, push harder. You're like, oh, awesome. Yeah, I'm going to get
something. I wanted to die. You know, you know, the bloodtasing your mouth, you know?
Oh, that cut up her taste. Yeah, that copper taste. Yeah, whatever that thing is. So I had some of
that going on. But, but yeah, you have the short-term and you have the long-term goals. You got to
have them both. And you got to, they've got to be attached somehow, but you got to lean on which one
is going to get you to do what you know you're supposed to do. You know you're supposed to do.
That's a little psychology behind just getting after it. Yeah. Right. Yes. A little psychology behind
just getting after it. Little head games. You echoed and I were talking the other day. And he was
all, he was kind of surprised because I was talking about there's there's one workout that I do,
which is it's I it's my hardest and most brutal workout. And it's in it's in the field manual.
But it's a 20 rep squat. You do you do you take a weight that you can squat 10 times and you do it
20 times. And like after rep 12 every single rep is just it's just it's a it's pain. And then you
do that and then you lay on the floor for 20 minutes and then you get up and you do it again and
you lay on the floor for 20 minutes and you get up and do it again. So it's three sets in one hour.
It's a one hour workout. But I was telling echo. I was like, yeah, there's times where I'm in the middle of like
set two and I'm on rep 14 and I'm like I don't even I don't even think I want to be strong. I don't want to be strong.
I don't even care from healthy. I just want to I just want to just this is this is horrible. Why would I be doing this right now?
It's a stupid. Yeah, really, but but actually what gets me to push through those is I think to myself.
Oh, you hear that? That's actual weakness in your mind right now. Actual living weakness gets a voice in your mind right now.
Are you going to listen to it? Are you going to listen to it? No, you're not going to listen to it.
Are you doing them straight through or are you? Yes, that's it's it's an old school workout that I originally got from well,
there's a book called Super Squats. Good stuff. There's a book called Super Squats. If and that book has this work up.
But actually that book only has you do one set you do one set. I was the idiot that sought to myself well of one set is good. How about I do three sets of that?
And it's brutal. It's brutal. Yeah. Once you think of it. It's like well, I have to do it now. Yeah.
No, that's another thing. That's another thing I say is, you know, if you don't really feel like working out, okay, that's fine.
Write down what you're going to do and then just do it. Just turn off your brain and just do what you're supposed to do. Just put the numbers down and do what you're supposed to do.
You're not every day is all
Happy, you know, this is great. I feel myself getting stronger. No, I feel like I'm going to puke.
That's not cool. But that's good. That's like a like kind of like you're talking about how
If you go by how you feel every day like I feel like doing this or feeling whatever you're feeling
where just like are you saying or are you you are in the habit of looking at it a certain way like what's important to me.
Kind of how you feel is kind of shuffled to the side. What's important? Okay. Now
I'm going to get moving. Yeah. Fueings are not.
Not bad generally not a good thing to rely on to make things. Yeah. To rely generally not a good thing. But it can trick you though.
You know how like just like how you're saying in the beginning, you know when you first decide to do something.
Yeah. You know like New Year's resolution, whatever, you know like it's real common thing.
We're at the beginning exciting. Let's start this new thing. And then at the end it can be because you see the goal right there.
We're about to do it. You know kind of thing but in the middle. It's like yeah. So feeling can I don't want to say
Yeah, you're right. Don't rely on it. But it can trick you because in the beginning when you have that feeling like you want to.
It's like it's almost like you think it's going to be there the whole time. Yeah.
You know, this new thing. This is the new thing for me. I've never felt anything like this about anything I've ever done.
I'm excited about this one. And it goes away. And you always want to do it. Always have that energy at the end.
Like of a I bet like the last. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The last one.
It's like well, where was all that energy? Yeah. And it's like,
Have you guys ever heard of the central governor theory of fatigue? No. Well, it's basically about
it's a different. So see if I can do this without making it super long. There's two different.
We got eight hours recording time. There's two different theories on how your body, I guess process is fatigue or what it exactly is.
And so there's the I think it's called the catastrophic theory where basically
you're during utabadas and something breaks down and then like you run out of energy totally
to plead yourself of glycogen or whatever. And then you you can't because you don't have any more glycogen.
So you muscles just don't work. And then there's this other theory which is kind of the accepted theory now
that your brain has a governor in it. And it's it's getting all this information from your muscles and
your senses all it's getting all this information. It's calculating how much energy it
meters out. And so when you're doing your tobadas, the first one you have all sorts of energy. So you're
you're brain's like, go. And it's connected to your subconscious and your conscious are kind of connected.
So you kind of know how many sets you do and your brain actually calculate that's
calculate to that into it's how it decides to do this. So that first one you're like,
Oh, tons of glycogen available to me. So I can just blow through this first one. And then as you go,
your brain is getting the signals that you're running your unedic glycogen. Maybe the
calcium to contract the muscles is kind of getting low. And so it kind of dials you back
automatically by contracting less muscle fibers. And so you kind of get and it makes you feel
fatigues. So they say that fatigue is actually fatigue and pain are actually emotion. So it makes you
feel is emotion fatigue is alive. So it makes you feel this and it kind of dials you back. And then
on that last one you know that this is your last one. So it's like, all right, well, we're done after
this so I'm going to let it go. And then so that's the theory. So yeah, it's kind of, so there
is this thing called the gold, I think I told you this gold G 10, I think I'm pronouncing it
correctly. Gold G 10 didn't origin a little regulator. And they're essentially like clusters of
nerves that going in. And so this is more like high intensity. Like I'm going to do a two rep one
rep two rep through your rep or whatever max. So that's regulated by your brain. So when you get too
much stress on your muscle, your brain says, hey, that's too much stress. You're going to stop the
muscle contraction or let off. Usually it stops it. That's why if you go for a two rep max one
rep max, you can get it here and then you just poop and it fails. You fail. But if you can get
it, if it doesn't fire, you go, oh, and you'll push, you'll push, sometimes you'll pause.
Yeah. And you can still put like, why did you just fail the other time? You know what I mean?
Yeah. It's that. So, and then if you go to lower intensity stuff, then it goes more into the
like, like, you ever seen like a marathon runner or, you know, some real long, like, I don't
know an obstacle course or the guy's like mentally, you can tell he's, he's not going to quit.
Yeah. But his legs are like shivering and shaking and he, it's like he's almost like,
he's going to pass out or something like that. Yeah. So that's more that. That's like your physical
capability, the energy, the physical energy system is failing. That's, you know, so that's a different
thing. So it's funny though. You've been like, I'm sure when you're in boot camp or going through
buds, like, how many push-ups are you going to do? You're just going to keep doing push-ups.
Yeah. You literally just keep doing push-ups and push-ups and push-ups and push-ups and push-ups
and push-ups and push-ups and push-ups and push-ups and push-ups and push-ups and push-ups. And sometimes
you lay there on flat on your face for like 20 seconds. But then they say keep going and say,
you just keep going and then you keep going for a little while and then you lay on your face for a
little while and then you keep going, like you can just keep going more. Yeah. Unless you get to that.
Now, sometimes on like a run, someone would pass out and like that would be that. Yeah.
What's that? Yeah. That's the most important. That's the real thing. You're brain basically
shut you. So you see somebody running at the end of a marathon and they're like,
like, their legs aren't working. That's kind of their body. They've been able to somehow push through
all the pain and all that stuff. They've been able to put, they've been motivated to push through.
And then finally your body gets to a point that if we keep going, we are going to die. So I'm
shutting you down and it just hits the, hits the shut down button and then your legs are stop where
it will just stop contracting your muscles. Yeah. Or I don't remember how we got on this subject.
Yeah. I'm pushing through. Pushing through. Yeah. Yeah. But it's like the engine is still going,
but the fuel doesn't get to the engine. So the engine starts, you know, the engine is not on
situation. But in like a higher intensity stuff, it seems like, you know, it given what I know,
but the goal G10 in Oregon situation. Seems like you're a goal G10 in expert. Yes, but well,
here, this is, this is when I really, I learned about it in college, but when I tore my bicep,
you know, you know, guys will live real hard and just tear their muscle off their bone. Yeah.
Because when you train heavy, you're training to to to what is to mitigate the effects of the
goal G10 in our, that's a, or like huge rushes of adrenaline. We'll do it too. You know, you hear the
story about them. The lady, she saw the car. That's the car. Yeah. Oh, the kid. Yeah. So
basically you're just bypassing the goal G10 in Oregon because of these extreme situations. Yeah.
But by nature, try lift up a car. You kind of can't. And the same, I mean, the bent, you know,
the, you know, most of us can't, you're kind of can't. When you're doing like a one-rette
max, like you were when you test for that, you see it all the time where, you know, the guy,
let's say, I don't know, he does 355, right? Like he even there's like a pause because it's pushing
so hard and he's barely any getting gets it put on 360, 5.5 pounds more. He gets it like a quarter
of the way up and it just falls on his chest, you know, because it fires and boom, muscle shut down.
That's what that is. Yeah. When you're doing the heavy, you're also teaching, you're kind of teaching
your body to like you most people can only contract 30% of their muscles at one time because their
brain doesn't let them because if they contracted all of your muscle fibers at the same time,
it could produce an injury. Yeah. So when you lift heavy, your brain is kind of learning,
all right, I can, I can contract this many. Oh, okay. Now I can contract this many and like the
best people still can only contract like 50% of their muscle fibers. Like Olympic lifters. Yeah. That's
like, because they're just, yeah, exactly. Or like really heavy power lifters. So now on the
last podcast, we talked about the Paralympic rowing. So and we talked about you biking across
across the country again, which is from Maine to San Diego and again, if you want to people
should go listen to those on podcast 92 and but when you were on last time, you were talking about
your latest announcement, your latest goal that you had written down in an ounce of everybody,
which was that you were going to run 31 marathon in 31 days, which is just kind of a little bit
psycho. And actually you wrote down, I'm going to read this excerpt from your from your online journal.
Here we go. Back to the journal. I can't. This is an expression that is vilified in our minds
beginning at a young age. Every time a young child announces this decision, they are corrected.
The first adult that hears it asks them whether or not they have even tried. Generally,
this confrontation was the child giving their task another attempt until their attention span
moves onto something else. The dole. See this and chuckle to themselves with knowledge that this is
just a child who is yet to learn the art of art and virtue of perseverance. By the time this child
comes of age, however, they will have been told by adults more times than they could count
that there is no such thing as can't. It is interesting then to think about how many adults seem
to proclaim this expression in their lives. It is because is it because like many things that
adults tell children, they are simply telling the child a general rule that the child must follow,
but can be broken once one is grown. Or is it because these adults are simply repeating what
they were told as children without thoroughly examining what the phrase I can't truly suggest.
If you confronted an adult that claims they can't do something with the same question about whether
not they have tried, the answer will almost always be yes. A adults have learned enough to know
that is unreasonable to say they can't until they have at least tried once. Therefore,
the real question that we should be asking in responses, have you tried everything?
Have you exhausted every possible option, scenario, combination, tool, and approach?
I did not simply refer to the ones that you knew of at the time you decided to undertake your task.
I mean, have you also research possibilities that you hadn't known about? Have you determined
whether or not there is another person out there that has performed the exact same task you
are attempting or at least something similar? Have you exhausted this research? Have you read every book,
blog, journal, magazine, bathroom stall, and website? If the answer to any of these questions is no,
then go back and try again because if you don't, because you don't truly know if you can do something
until you've tried absolutely everything. The fact of the matter is that rarely, if ever, is the answer
to all these questions, yes. Therefore, what does it that people actually mean when they say,
I can't. A more accurate, but more for both ways of saying it would be, I don't care about or want
enough this task or the resultant benefits of it in order to do all that is necessary to achieve it.
I was told countless numbers of times by people during my month of marathons that they couldn't
run one marathon, let alone 31 straight. Every now and then when I had time, I would discuss what they'd
said. We would jointly conclude that if something they cared about and depended on them doing so,
it would be possible. The most common example I used was if someone had a gun to your child's head,
do you think you could do it then? Therefore, the phrase, I can't, denotes a lack of investment
as opposed to a lack of potential or ability. I do not mean to say that every person I had this
conversation with should have had the motivation to run marathons. It was something that I decided
to do, not them. I merely wanted to express to them what I am expressing here, given the right purpose
and enough time you can. What happens if someone has said they can't? We have asked
them if they've done everything and the rare cases happen and they honestly say yes, do we
concede that they can't? Nope. If everything in existence has been attempted enough to determine
that it won't work, then congratulations, you've been awarded the honor of being the person who must
invent the method or the tool or determine the right combination, whether or not you will,
once again boils down to how much you care and time. It manned up being that a person ends up
trying for their entire life, but I suggest removing the phrase, I can't, from your lexicon
and replacing it with, I can't yet do this so that you don't risk being on your death bed saying,
I didn't. So, and I don't mean to, like if somebody comes up and says, I can't do something,
I'm not going to say, I know what they're really saying, I'm not going to judge them. I don't care
if you don't care about this thing, it doesn't matter to me, but you should just be a little bit more
accurate in what you're saying. If you say I can't run a marathon, you don't want to run a marathon,
you don't care about it, it doesn't matter to you, and that's your personal choice, you know, but to say
that you can't do it, having never even attempted it is just not an accurate statement.
So where did you get the idea to attempt 31 marathon in 31 days? So,
after my bike ride, I tried to make the parallel Olympics for a triathlon, and I did not succeed
to fail in that attempt, but with every failure there is a lesson learned and I learned when I was
training for a triathlon that I was pretty good at running. I was able to run the 5k triathlon,
5k distance at the end of the triathlon at 18 minutes flat, which is pretty fast. That's maxing out
the Marine Corps PFT, you can't get any faster than that. So, it's pretty fast, so I realized,
you know, I've decent, decent talent for running, and I'd run the Marine Corps marathon the year
before, and I knew that I could run a marathon. And I was just kind of, you know, after this failed
attempt to make the parallel Olympics, because it's kind of thinking about what my next mission
could be, and I wanted to do another thing like my bike ride, and I had heard about other people
doing this kind of thing where they do, you know, 50 marathons and 50 days and 50 states or 50
iron man, and 50 days and 50 states. So, you know, I decided I wanted to do marathons,
and I kind of put my own little spin on it, and I said, well, you know what, I want to get this
story in front of as many eyeballs as I can. So, to do 50 marathons, to do 31 marathons straight,
in my backyard isn't really going to do that. So, I need to do a hike. I could go down to the
trail every day for 31 straight and do it, and nobody would ever care, and nobody would have
refined out about it. And to be the same amount of, it'd be just as impressive to do.
And so, all right, I want to get this in front of as many eyeballs as possible. So, I need to do it
in major cities where there's a lot of people that can find out about it and spread it that way.
And so, I figured, all right, I'll take that same formula and do 31 marathons in
all in different cities. And I picked 31 because I was trying to figure a good number. So,
I started with the 20 number, which is the number associated with number of veterans suicides
every day. I figured that'd be a pretty powerful number. But after the thing about that, I kind of figured
it wasn't enough. It wasn't enough marathons in a row. And I figured by the time,
more marathons today. By the time I got started with that, I'd be, and by the time I got kind of
some momentum going, it pretty much be over. And so, I didn't figure it out as big an impact. So,
I want to do more. So, I was like, well, what about 50? And so, I was like, well, okay, 50,
I could probably do it if I trained enough for it. But 50 might be too many. It might be too long.
So, by the time I started getting going, and then I, you know, I'm at 40. I still have
10 more. People are going to kind of maybe lose interest. And I was like, oh, is that guy still doing
that? Because I found out about the iron cowboy doing his 50 iron man's in 50 days. And I kind
of had that same thing where, oh, he's going to be awesome. I was following him for the first
couple weeks, and then eventually I'm like, oh, is he still, is he even finished it? Oh, well,
kind of lost interest. I'm like, all right, well, what if I just did it for a month? I think people
could probably pay attention for a month. Then we'll really be interested for a month before they
really move on. It's like, all right, a month, okay, month the marathon's and longest month is 31.
So, I picked 31. And I have to say, when you know you're doing, you know what you're doing is hard
when you come on Jocco podcast. And he says, this is insane. Jocco willing, so something isn't saying,
you know, it's the right level of intensity. So, what kind of miles did you put into, get ready for it?
And how long did you train for it? Um, my total I trained about 18 months for this specifically.
And I say that knowing that I had been an athlete training just about twice a day every day for
five years at the time. So, I had that huge history of being an athlete to begin with. And then on
top of that, I put the 18 months of training specifically for this. And so, the way it would work would be
I would run, I would do six weeks, a six week block where I was applying a certain stress.
And so, my first six week block would be, I was basically just working on getting long distance
because when I was running triathlons, I only ever did, you know, five K max. So, I was I would run an
hour, I probably run three times a week, um, be an hour, 90 minutes, another hour and they'd be spaced
out back a couple days. So, I do six weeks of that. And then I would do a little test block.
And my first test block was running the Marine Corps marathon again. So, it was one marathon.
And then I'd do another six week chunk where I would change the stress and make it a little bit harder.
So, I would do, I would either run a little bit longer, um, on my really long run for the week,
or I would block them together, maybe like run an hour and a half Wednesday and then run an
hour Thursday. Kind of change up the blocking. And after that six weeks, I would do again,
and I would do two marathon. And the first time I attempted to do marathon is actually failed.
I couldn't, I ran the first one the next day. I ran maybe half marathon and I quit. I was like,
I had you already said you're going to run 31 marathon. Yeah, at this point. Yeah.
That's reassuring. Yeah. So, I was like, all right. But I kind of knew,
I, 31 or two. I like to. Oh, I told my friends, I was like, yeah, I tried to run two and I didn't.
They were like, but I, what was it, what was the failure based on?
Um, I didn't need enough the day before. So, the, part of the reason I was doing these test blocks
was figuring out, first of all, pacing, you know, good way different ways to pace it.
So, make sure I didn't blow up and then figuring out how much I needed to eat.
And figuring out, you know, what it was going to feel like. And so that first time I attempted to,
I didn't need enough carbs of the day, you know, after that first marathon. So, I was just totally
depleted the next day. So, I was like, okay, I didn't, it wasn't a lack of willpower or lack of
kind of ability at that time. It was just my approach at that time wasn't, uh, wasn't right. So, I was like,
okay, I didn't really panic about that because I knew, I kind of knew what happened.
And so, all right. And so, I go and then I do six, and I kind of just repeated that for the year and a half,
where six week chunk and I just changed it, block them together a little bit more, run longer.
And then I tried three marathon and I succeeded and it was pretty easy. I'm not easy, but, you know,
it's, I was like, all right, three. Yeah, it's feasible. I three, yeah, I don't feel that bad, you know.
And then I did another six week and changed the stress again, longer and block together more. I ran five.
And I was like, all right, five. Okay. And I would mess around with a different,
different pacing strategies, different ways of breaking up the, each marathon, taking breaks and that kind of thing.
And eating different foods just to see how all that I would react to that. And then after five,
I was like, you know what, I'm going to, I'm not going to do any more than five because if I do more than five,
I'm just going to want to keep going. I don't really want to. So five is enough. I felt really good after five.
And then after that, I just kind of trained through for maybe three more months. But I kept every six
weeks. I kept adding more mileage. And so, the last 12 weeks, I was running a marathon every Thursday.
And how many total miles were you putting in a week?
And that last 12 weeks, probably 60, like my, you know how they say a deadlift starts at 135 pounds, you know,
like my runs would start at two hours. I wouldn't do anything less than two hours. And then yeah,
I would do that marathon on Thursday. And I would run two hours the day before and two hours the day after.
And the reason I was doing that was to get this run a marathon so many times leading up to it that
the thought of running one marathon isn't really, it's just normal. It became normal to me.
And so I was trying to get that. I wanted to take you of running to run a marathon at the pace at your
sustained 31 day pace at my sustained. It was interesting. So we run in like eight minute miles,
nine minute miles. Usually it would be between eight 30 and nine minute miles. And it was interesting because
in the summertime, I was running like a four and a half hour marathon of total running time. And so all the
predictions I put on my website were like, oh, I'm probably going to finish in about this amount of time.
But that was during the hot and humid summer in Virginia,
whereas when I was doing this, it was in the fall time. So I was actually able to run faster. And people would
come out and say, what the heck, you said you could be running like nine, ten minute miles,
the New York run in eight 30s or eight or nine minutes. And it was kind of, it was what also is interesting was,
I figured my first marathon would be, I'd be fresh. And I'd be my fastest marathon.
And so that was in London. It was about four hours, roughly, of running time with breaks. I would take
three 20 minute breaks. Four hours of running time. And then it kind of did follow that trajectory where
Philadelphia, New York and Boston were a little bit slower, like four, five, four, 15,
somewhere in there. And then after I got there, I actually started getting faster.
So the next all the way into Chicago, my fastest one was my tenth one in Chicago was 350.
And of running time. And then after that, it kind of just level off. And I'd usually be going somewhere
between 350 and four hours. The human body is amazing. Yeah. And all this stuff that I've been
able to adapt to. And even I still wasn't able to predict that I would actually get faster.
I didn't expect that. And so I mean, this goes to show you that the body can adapt to even more than you think.
What are the biggest challenges of regular running and running with prosthetics on?
So yeah, one of the things I had to figure out was one of the things I learned and the my first
and second Marine Corps marathon was that I needed to figure out how I was going to prevent
skin breakdown. So prevent, I would run after my first marathon. I ran and then I took my legs off.
And it was just blood. I'd take the liner off and just blood to shot everywhere. And it wasn't all
blood, but it was like kind of blood mixed with sweat. Right. It was like, oh my god, what I do to myself
did I was I was scared. I was like, did I mess up my skin graft? Is that thing? Because those things can be
kind of sensitive. And it ended up just being a little blister like or a little I've rubbed the skin off.
And it's like the size of that big. But I knew if I did that ran again the next day,
that's going to get bigger and that's going to totally derail all things. I had to figure out a way that
I could avoid getting my skin rubbing off. And so I started to mess around. I wear these things called
liner liners that kind of wick the sweat. They kind of collect the sweat to help with claminess.
And so usually I put those on and they would go all the way around the end of my stump and be like a
sock on the end. So what I did was I cut that off at the end. And so it's kind of basically
like a kind of like a rash guard on my thigh and it wouldn't go down to the end of the stump.
So I cut that off. Why do you want it to go down to the end? So what my theory was, it's kind of
a cloth. It's a cloth material. So what I figured was in the liner itself is a silicone.
And I didn't figure that the silicone would be creating a lot of friction. So what I figured was
maybe that little liner liner, you know, as comfortable as it was, it was still fabric. So it was
probably just 40,000 steps. Still rubbing the skin off. So I alright. So I'll cut that off and see what happens.
And that was good. But it still didn't fix everything. So what I ended up doing was I, you know,
for my cycling experience, I'd use chamy cream on my on your butt, you know, to help prevent
saddle source. It's like, well, maybe I'll take the chamy cream and put it on the spots that I know
tend to get rub. So I would go up. I would just take a huge goop and just slather it on there.
And and that seemed to fit that fixed. It pretty good. And so I was like, alright. So I figured that
method out. So that's one of the things is trying to figure it with running with prosthetics is
figuring out how to avoid that skin breakdown. And that's kind of new ruin because that can,
I mean, you can be as strong as you want, but if you're skin, if you can't put your leg on because the
skin hurts so much, then all that strength, it doesn't doesn't matter.
So so what did you do with your diet? Well, you just pound calories. I mean, just eating everything
inside. Yeah. So I approached my diet a little bit differently than most you might expect for
marathons. I did a low carb diet. Well, what would be a low carb for this kind of thing? So I was
using this, and all my training and all my pacing and all my eating. I did this thing called the
Maphatone method. And it's basically this guy fell Maphatone figured that you should do all your
training at an aerobic level. So he figured out this through experience he calculated your, he came
over the equation to calculate your maximum aerobic heart rate was 180 minus your age. And then there's
other little adjustments you can make to that. So my Maphatone heart rate was 149. And so I had never
in anything over 149. So you're on a heart rate monitor all the time? Yeah, I had a Tom Tom watch
and I had one of them. My wife has one. So I had two on when I was one of my marathons. Just in case
one messed up. And so I ran all my all my training and all my marathons were run at as close to that
149 heart rate. And what it does is trains instead of like making you strong, you're muscle stronger.
It actually trains your cardiovascular efficiency. So when you start out, you'll be running at 149
heart rate and you'll be pretty slow. But as you do that more, your heart and lungs will become more
and more efficient. So eventually you'll be running at that same 149 heart rate, but you'll be
running twice as fast because you become a more efficient. So I just approached it like that.
And I kind of figured to be better to do it that way because the more glycolysis and the more
carbonyl hydrate you use, the more your body is going to have to, they're more destructive to your body.
So I'm like, well, in order to be able to run these, I have to run them at a maintainable pace
in a maintainable way. I can't just go out and run as fast as I can every single one. I had to
pace it. And so I figured that's how I was going to pace it. Keeping my heart rate under 150
not using those carbs. And so that also allowed me to be able to eat just really high fat.
I think I had between 150 and 175 grams of carbs a day. And that's what I limited it to. And then I would eat
during the run, I would eat three bunk breaker bars. I wanted each of my breaks.
And they're just like these little energy bars. And that would keep me going. There would be
my kind of a lot of carbs there. So that would kind of keep me going during the run.
I would just drink water whenever I got thirsty. And then after I ran, we had pre-made these,
me, pre-made all my meals. And we just made this super calorie dense cheese and meat sauce
that we froze. We put it on the freezer. And it was just the densest, you know, the
calorie dense stuff you could probably like, you know, can to whole containers and cream and cheese
and all this stuff. So super dense. And my mom would heat up a bowl of that for me. And I would take
a bag of pork rinds and put that in the chili and mix that in there and get the whole thing.
And before a lot of the times before I even ran, I would eat another bag of pork cracklings.
So I'd have two bags of pork rinds, this big ass bowl of meat sauce and cheese sauce.
And then I would eat some sweet potato chips, things like that. If somebody brought us donuts,
I'd have a donut, you know. We have issues around.
I would eat pork rinds, good donuts. People, as people could see what just happened to
Jocca was hiding on a Saturday donut. Thought it was going to come across.
Um, so I eat that and then at the for dinner, I eat eggs and bacon.
And the whole time you're, you got an RV because you did this in 31 different cities.
Yeah. You started off in London. I then flew back to America and then started the grind
New York, Chicago, just going around the country. And you your wife and a little support team
was in the RV. Yep. So it was for us. It was a Pam. What kind of RV did you have?
Coach, Min Marotta, I think. Get some. It's like a 35. Do you have a RV? I do.
You're going to 30, you're going to 35 foot or no? Yeah, it was a class A 35 foot,
King size bed in the back. Oh, yeah, that's nice. Um, don't you sleep good in RVs?
I don't know, it's not moving. I don't know why. I sleep like a baby in RVs. I slept well, but it's
not totally comfortable when you're driving down the highway at 60. Yeah. It's pretty bouncy back there.
I mean, it made it. This is something I didn't expect. It was it made it kind of hard to eat,
be in in the back. So I'd have to eat all this stuff. And by that's being in the back of that RV for
five, six hours. I was starting to get a little bit. Yeah, it's a lot more bouncy than being in the front.
Oh, yeah, big time. That's a big deal. That's a lot. The axle and there's so much weight. Yeah. So be Pam,
my wife, team leader. She drove some. She drove a lot. I wasn't even, I wasn't really in charge of the
years. The day to day. Yeah, my job. Yeah, exactly. Well, run when I needed to run, when I need to do interviews,
run my mouth. Oh, no, do that. And then that was it pretty much. And then put Pam, she was doing
everything, you know, driving, setting up scheduling all my interviews, working with these reporters.
And I'm like, oh, we want to do this at 630. Can we make that happen? She's scheduled in. And then
calling ahead to the venues that we had decided to run at, you know, square in that away. Oh,
okay, where can we park? We're coming now. And there's probably so many other jobs that I didn't even
know about that she was doing. And then, you know, it's taken on a boatload of stress for her.
And then my mom would she be kind of Pam's assistant. She'd be a charge of kind of keeping me
fed and hydrated during when I was running, making try to need anything. And then afterwards,
she would make my meals. And then one of her most important jobs was she's a massage therapist.
So she'd give me two massage every day after I ran while we were driving to the next place. And then I also had a
driver who did most of the driving. And then he, he just kind of helped out around the,
the RV, like whatever Pam needed him to do something, he would do it. What kind of people joined you
on the runs? I know you said you were telling me yesterday some some rail Marines in England.
Oh, yeah. I joined you. That's got it out there. I mean tons of military.
If I had to categorize, I mean, it just people people from all walks alive. You know,
ultra runners would find out about it and people that ran, people that didn't even run would come out.
A lot of military. I would say 50% of the people, though, that came out. I would say,
how to hear about this. They say Jocco Park. I'm no bullshit. At least 50% of them.
That's killer. The troopers are not played around. Yeah. No. They're to support.
You're doing major support. And then, uh, yes, there would be a lot of milit, a lot of guys that I deployed with,
came out and supported a lot of cops, a lot of fire departments. But you know, it's,
there really wasn't one net to just, even kids would come out. Yeah, kids would come out.
People with their parents, a full families would come out for the day and run.
It was also my kids that ran their first ever marathon with me. Yeah. It's awesome. And a lot of
people would just, they'd be running their first marathon. And then I had to wait the lady sees like,
well, I'm running a marathon next week, but I'm going to run one with you. And she PB, you know,
and so it would be all sorts of people I'd come out of the RV in the morning and there just be
people that have been waiting there for me to come out and no matter what. And it didn't matter.
Time in the morning where you start running. I would usually start around seven.
Unless I had some kind of big interview, like I had a fox in friends interview when I was in
New York. So I started at 7 30 or 8. But I would try and be pretty religious about starting at 7.
And then people would be out there. It didn't matter if it was 20 degrees in Denver.
They'd be out there. If it was raining, they'd be out there. You know, it was awesome.
That is awesome. What was the, what was the hardest part or did you meet any hard parts during the,
during the trip? I was there. And actually, I remember when you were getting ready to go.
Yeah. This is pretty cool. I'm like, hey, man, like, what if, you know, what if you're not going to make it?
Like, what if you can't. And what I was actually thinking about, I was thinking about your legs. And,
and I know that, I mean, I've got other friends that have prosthetics. And I know that it's a,
that it's a grind and it rips your skin apart. And I was kind of thinking, that's what I was thinking.
I wasn't thinking, like, oh, you were going to get tired and quit. But I was thinking that they're,
there might come a point where you physically weren't going to be able to do this without, you know,
causing massive damage to your body. Yeah. And possibly, you know, getting infections and everything else.
And I said, you know, what if, you know, what if something happens and you're like, no, I'm going to,
I'm going to finish it. Is that okay? Well, there you have it. Yeah. Well, you know, that was
some I was concerned about too. I didn't know how my body was going to react to it. And
I didn't know for sure, I never knew even up to the last one. Last mile of the last one,
I, I would never have say, I'm definitely going to finish this because, you know, anything can happen.
So I could have my prosthetic on twisted a little bit and then that rub's off skin on my skin
graft and then that causes it to die or something. And I'm screwed. And then I had, I can't, you know,
I can't continue. So I never knew for sure, but I, I, I believed that as long as everything kind of went
according to plan, then it was possible as long as no catastrophic events happened. And I was feeling
confident. I was very confident the whole time. And then I got all the way around to Texas.
And I had been really lucky with the weather all the way around. We got to Texas and we're hitting a
heat wave in Texas. And it was probably, I woke up in the morning in in a, in Houston,
sweating all right to sweating already. It was ridiculous. I was just covered in sweat,
waking up in Houston. It was like 100% humidity, probably like 75, 80 degrees, just to start the day.
Houston gets some. Oh my god. And heat gets to me pretty easily. It's, it's the one thing
that could really slow me down. But I came out of that RV. And there were, and the heat,
the heat can get to you because you, you basically are missing a couple radiators. Oh yeah.
I mean, because your, your body, everyone's body gives off a lot of heat through their legs.
And you don't have those radiators to give off heat anymore. So you, you, you can overheat fairly
quickly. Exactly. Um, yeah. Then my, my, so in addition not having the radiators, my legs are
encased in carbon fiber. So it's actually bottling in the heat on my legs instead. So it can really slow
me down. But I came out of that RV in Houston. And there was just 70 people there waiting for me to run.
And a lot of more Marines, there's a local Marine recruiting office that came out and they brought
their pulleys. People that were about to go to boot camp. Awesome. And they brought them out. And I'm like,
well, it doesn't matter. You know, I, I'm going, I'm going, I, even if they weren't there,
I still would have ran it. But I'm like, man, look at all these people that want to run with me.
And so I just did it. And then it just, it took a long, I think that was probably my longest.
It was probably four and a half hours of running. And that was a guy in its regular wheelchair that
did it with me the whole time. Just Berlin and his wheelchair by me. So that was a really tough
date. So that San Antonio Houston Dallas were all really hot, really human. And I had to do them
back to back to back to back. But I got through it because people came out and ran with me and kept me going.
And then in Nashville, I, it had been raining that day. And I was running on a trail. And there
are these wooden bridges over these little brick creeks. And I had run on wooden bridges before.
So I knew they were going to be slippery. And I was like, are I going to take it slow over this?
And I still I slipped on this bridge. And injured my back. Yeah. Not at the time. I didn't feel
like I injured at the time. I was like, hmm, this is kind of a hard fall. And I kept running.
But the next day when I woke up in Atlanta, my back was killing me. And I had four left.
And I just had to gut it out. You know, every time I landed on my right foot, it was like kind of
shot a bad pain into my, into my middle back. And there's a little bit frustrating because I was like,
I was feeling so good up to that point. And I had run a super fast marathon in Memphis.
I was feeling so good. I was like, oh man, I'm going to be able to really enjoy these last four,
you know, and then you know, the universe is like, nope, you're going to have to earn it. Sorry.
You're going to have to earn it.
You'll recruit these last four. And then you finished up on Veterans Day. Yeah. In in DC. In DC Veterans Day.
And my back was feeling a little bit better at this point, but still hurt and pretty bad.
And it was interesting because all up to that point, my my stumps were feeling pretty good. They had.
I started to get these little pockets of fluid on the kind of the outer corner of both of them.
And they hurt when I pushed on them. And then usually for the first mile, they would hurt pretty bad.
And it got to point my mom had this like kind of icy hot spray. She was spraying that on the end
every day to help. And so, but after the first mile, that pain would kind of go away.
I would just pound them into submission or whatever. And they would be like, all right, you're going to
keep going. We're just going to turn ourselves off or whatever.
So after the first mile, I'd be good. And they wouldn't really hurt a much more into the next step.
This is a knucklehead. Yeah.
He hears us. He hears us. He's going to keep doing it.
And yeah, so after the first mile would be, they'd be fine. But that last day in Washington, DC,
they just never turned off. And I think maybe it was because there's that same thing where
I knew this was the last one. And my body kind of knew it was the last one. So it was starting to maybe
let itself, and it had held on to that last one. And maybe it was starting to let itself on gravel a little bit.
And so that whole last day was just pain in the back.
Freezing coal. It was like 20 degrees out. And so every time I stopped to rest, I was sweating. I was like,
you know, I had a hot water bottle. I was all snuggled up with and I would still be like cold.
But just the sheer number of people out there. I'd never, what I,
there was never less than a hundred people running with me than an entire day. It's awesome.
And I had, there was people there that had run with me. And other cities that came
and came for the last one. I had brothers with me that had deployed to Afghanistan. All there running with me.
I had, for my last mile, I had, uh, there was a general running. It was out in front. So we
running around the national mall, my last mile around the reflecting pools. It's about a mile.
And so there was a general out front. Like clear the way. Because clear people out of the way.
You know, and then there was a sergeant major who had been my company first sergeant.
A grith, so they were running like, side by side. Like, get out of the way.
No politely telling people to get out of the way.
Sergeant major Kent retired a sergeant major of the Marine Corps. Top, a sergeant major in the Marine Corps.
It was running with me that last, uh, maybe 12k singing cases. You know,
there was, you know, I just had, I had brothers with me that were in the group.
Uh, their kids, you know, uh, Pam joined me for that last mile. My mom joined me. I had family in there
for the last mile. And before we started that last mile, I'd like gear. I promised I was like,
I've already everybody. I'm going to take this last mile real slow just so that we can,
everybody can stay together. And then by the end of, I was like sprinting by.
Just so pumped up, you know, to be finished. But man, it was so cool. And I, uh, finished that last little
loop. And I kind of like ran up. There's this little curved sidewalk that goes up to the Lincoln Memorial.
And so I finished that last mile. I kind of curve it up to that last and the whole sidewalk
was lined with folks. And then they had set up a little, uh, finished line for me up there.
And the whole thing was just lined with people. Like, yeah, you know. And, uh,
uh, cross a finish line. Pam was there. You know, we celebrated she cried. I did not cry.
Um, to make that clear right now. Um, finished, you know, kissed her hug tur and then the
reporters kind of came and started a talk. Awesome. And, uh, you raised money. Yeah.
You raised money. A bunch of money for, you know, you support a bunch of foundations. So that was awesome, too.
Yeah. That was sort of the other driving force behind you doing it. Besides, just you're crazy. But
also if you were raising money for a bunch of good causes. Yeah. You know, raising money. We raised 200,000
at the time I finished. I kind of, I stopped team track, but it's probably like 215 now or something like that.
Uh, for December 5 on tunnel to tower's foundation, coalition to Sudamacas heroes. And that was kind of,
that was, that was kind of how I almost, um, manifested, physically manifested. How successful it was.
So why, what I was trying to do is just create that, create a story that people could feed off of.
And so when you, when you look at all the stories that are out there about veterans coming back,
the vast, vast, vast, vast majority of stories are the post-traumatic stress story. Every movie
that comes out that is about of, oh, I have, oh, we have veteran coming home is this pretty much the same,
uh, same recipe. Veteran goes overseas, they experience war, they see some bad stuff like you do
in war, they come back and they're a basket case and they implode and they implode their family and
all this stuff. And that's again, that's a hugely important story too, no, because it does happen.
And it's, we have to take care of those guys and we have to make sure we keep that story in our
in the forefront of our minds. But what started to bother me was that was the only story that was
getting told. And I think general Madda said it best when he answered the question somewhere and he said,
you know, expectations are very strong. So if you, if you go overseas and everybody's kind of
expecting you to, uh, basically have PTSD, then there's a good chance that you're going to
manifest that in yourself. Just by do it by virtue of the fact that that's what's expected. And so
you're just going to create that. Yeah. Um, and so what I wanted to do is get this story out there,
tell a story where there was a guy that went overseas, had a traumatic experience and came back
and was better than he was before. And so that was how I determined that was going to create this
story. And you know, I felt that I knew that this was a problem that this story wasn't getting out there.
And no, so I felt the responsibility to create it myself. You know, if it's not out there,
it's like what I was saying to that I can't, uh, journal. No, I had that responsibility because it
just wasn't out there very much. And so I set out to create that story and then, you know, so if
if there was a guy that was struggling, um, he could see that story and then he could see, you know,
what it actually is possible to go see war and come back and be fine and or not be necessarily be totally
fine. But uh, overcome it and find your new path and find your new mission and continue on,
keep fighting for veterans, keep fighting for your brothers. And if they, if there's a guy that's
coming home and he's kind of on the fence, he sees that story and maybe takes him the the right way
and then at the same time getting it out there for civilians. Uh, there's a major military
civilian gap of understanding, because military tend to be isolated and on the bases. And, you know,
that the, I could see that gap because of all these movies that were coming out. There's
every, like 100% of movies that came out were the main character at PTSD, whereas you look at
the statistics and it's 25% of non-combat troops have what we'll call PTSD, 7% of
combat troops have PTSD. And so it's a huge misrepresentation of the actual, uh, of the actual
scale. And so I wanted civilians to see that story, but here here's a veteran that came,
came home and was, you know, he was able to kind of adapt or process what he'd seen.
No, I think that's 100% right. And I think you get, you get, you nailed it and mad as nailed it.
Like you set the expectations that everyone thinks that when they go to war, they're going to be
all screwed up. It's like, that's what's going to happen to him. But if they, if they get told,
hey, and, and I mean, you know, you just said, when you came home, you were better.
Yeah. And like that's awesome. And, you know, I had that conversation with Sam Harris, where,
you know, he'd asked me, he said, hey, you know, you, you get told, I hear you saying that
war is horrible and war is held. But at the same time, you say that it was like the best
highlight of your life and it was, and I told him, and he's like, how do you reconcile those two
things? And I said, well, have you ever known someone that had cancer? And when they get, if they make it
through, they say it made them a better person, and they wouldn't wish no, and anyone, but it made
them a better person, and he said, yeah, and it made sense to them then. Yeah. And that's what I think
is an important thing. And, you know, look at the, I mean, every war has incredible veterans that
come home and do incredible things. Yeah. And I mean, Charlie Plum, when he was on, you know,
after being in the Hanoi Hilton for six years, and he rattled off the guys that were in the
Hanoi Hilton with him. Yeah. That were, you know, presidents and and congressman, and just all these
incredible achievements, maybe presidents, but incredible, incredible achievements, well,
presidential candidate with stockdale. So, and and McCain, right? Two presidential candidates. So,
so, incredible achievements. And yet, the media and the Hollywood, they don't shine the light on that.
What they shine the light on is the people that are having issues, which, again, like you said,
that's real, too. Yeah. But the fact that you made this huge effort in our continuing to make a huge
effort to show not just civilians, but also military that, yeah, war is bad. I mean, you, you
say, you had a traumatic experience, you had a freaking life changing experience, and you've come
back, and you've, you've proven that that traumatic experience is not as strong as you are.
And I think that's the most important message that that anyone could communicate back to
both sides, both a civilian and military side. Yeah. And I mean, there's so much to be said about
what, knowing something is already possible. So, I told you about Dan Kinnos in last time I was here.
And back then, he was about a year and a half in front of me. Yeah. And he was showing me what was
possible for me. I didn't know that it was possible to be able to walk around and with a huge
back back on and use a no-canes, but once I saw it, it's like, oh, so it is, Paul. And it just made it
so much easier to do. And I was doing a talk not too long ago, and somebody told me afterwards
that something that I didn't even realize. I was, you know, how last time I was talking about
finding ideas and that we do that thing called proof the lane. And they told me that that
they just kind of mentioned to me that I kind of had continued, I did that in the Marine Corps.
And I did this thing called proofing the lane where I was proving what what I was, you know,
stepping on the ground and proving was cleared. And then they said that kind of that, I didn't
realize at this time, but they said that theme is following you wherever you go. So I'm now
proofing the lane for these, these veterans that may be struggling a little bit. I'm not
trying to improving what's possible. And so, yeah, I'm glad that they, glad that they told me that
because they really make sense to me. That makes total sense. And Dan Kinausin, who's a total
stud. Is it about being a pair of things? Again? Yeah, again, he's also in the Pionn. Was it Pionn?
What's going on, yeah? Pionn, Chang. South Korea, two things, doing by Athlan and the
cross country scheme. Yeah, no, he's a total beast, a seal that that also lost both his legs above
the knee and just a total badass stud. I want to read a couple more little sections from your
journal to close this out. Here we go back to the journal. So when I get asked by people,
how could you fathom, let alone complete running 31 marathons in 31 days? I give them the same simple
answer because I am a marine. And my mission to fight for my fellow veterans has not changed.
And when a marine is on mission for his fellow marines, he is capable of anything.
Therefore, when people asked me, have it you don't enough? Sacrifice enough?
I remind them that not only do I have the capability to accomplish my mission, be proud of my
marine core heritage, stay faithful to my fellow marines and keep fighting. I have the responsibility.
I have the responsibility to keep fighting from my country, my core and my fellow veterans.
So no, it will never be enough. The day that I have done enough will be the day that six
marines lower my body into my grave in Arlington, Cemetery.
And how can I do it? I do it because it is my duty and to do my duty is my honor.
In one last little passage I want to read from your journal. It says, I am merely a representative
of what is possible for any veteran, any person. So as time passes, I do not want my name to be remembered.
All I want to be remembered is the story. Years from now, when people speak about this,
I want them to say, I remember that guy who ran all those marathons that one time,
and their friend will reply, what was his name? And they will say, I don't remember.
But he was a marine.
Well, Rob, I can tell you that I've got a feeling that you will be remembered and your name will
be remembered in the way that you have represented the Marines and America and mankind will be remembered
and remembered and revered as well. So thanks for coming on the show again and letting us all know
that we are capable of much, much more if we just step up and push a little bit harder.
Been awesome having you back on, man. It's been awesome being here. I mean again,
I'm glad I can come up with the material. Once you said you invited me back, I was like,
I got to start writing some stuff. You don't have to write these words just come on and talk.
Echo, you got any questions for the man? Yeah, was there any time during the 31 marathons that you were
like, oh, this is kind of lame. I've kind of off this now. Were you ever think that? I mean,
not even necessarily that you were tired physically or nothing, just kind of like, you know,
this is kind of interesting. I definitely got tired of doing the interviews. Oh, okay. Yeah.
But the thing with that is the interviews, you know, I didn't, I wasn't doing this to like
to get a bunch of, you know, people tell me I'm awesome, you know, anything. But the interviews,
so doing the marathons without the interviews would be pointless because the story wouldn't
get out there without doing the interviews, but doing the interviews without the story without
doing the marathons is actually, is also a point. Really. Kind of got the funny thing is, I did this
because it was going to be hard. I did this because it was going to be really difficult. Yeah.
And I knew that going in and that's the whole purpose of it. It was just do something that was hard.
And then, you know, the last four days and then Houston and stuff when it started to get hard,
I was like, shit. Was it hard? Yeah. But yeah, I, like I said, I was saying before there was
never a point where I was like, there's no way I can do this or anything like that. I was like,
as long as I don't get severely injured by a mistake, don't get hit by a car or, you know,
break a bone or something, then I'm going to be able to do this. Yeah. I'm going to get her done.
Yeah. I feel like, like, everyone's at all when I do something that takes a long time, like months or
something like that, I get to a point. Everyone's at a while. I want to make it. Yeah. It definitely gets,
I mean, it gets repetitive for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's do it. I'm going to make a
guess. Wake up, run marathon. You don't listen to music. You don't listen to do this in a podcast,
do you listen to music? I didn't really on the month of marathon except a few times because
you have to live with you. I have people with me and you're just going to be like, hey, I'm listening to a podcast.
Leave me alone. Well, sometimes I did do that to be honest with you. There were times I did do that
sometimes. That went same on in that jocca podcast. You're hoping for a long one. One of the
few people I was hoping for a four hour podcast. Did you do it? There were, I felt kind of bad in the
last four because I told you my back was hurting so much. And I was like, every time I landed on
that right foot of me, severe pain, and then I kind of make me kind of gasped a little bit.
Oh, yeah. And so I felt really bad because there's a lot of people that were,
they came out to run with me and they were like talking to me and trying to help me keep going.
But I just was not in the mood for talking. You know, when I felt terrible because they'd be
like asking me questions. I'd be like, given in the one word, you know, like, oh, you know,
but what's your favorite place or whatever? I'm like, oh, I don't know. And it's, I just,
I, so I wish I could have handled that part a little bit better and, you know, get let those people
go talk to those people a little bit. But I'm sure they understand why I kind of set it before
and they listen to everybody. Yeah, if I'm not talking to it because I have this back injury.
It's not because I don't like you. Yeah, because I hate you.
Yeah, so it's that. But you know, when it got hard, I fell back on on my mission and that's what's
that's what I was doing at four. I didn't whether or not I was hurting or didn't feel like doing it.
Was not as important as it is. Does it have anything to do with anything really does it?
Yeah, just not very. Can I ask you, I want to ask your opinion on something because I came up with a theory
and it's not totally thought out yet and like my mother's and this theory might actually get me killed.
So please echo, of a defending me. I think that there may be something that's more powerful than discipline.
And what? Anybody that's listening, Jaco reach for the knife?
And maybe it's just that they're kind of going hand in hand. But I think the one thing that may be as powerful
or maybe even more powerful than the discipline is selflessness. And so the reason I say that is because
I don't know, maybe the discipline leads to the ability to perform the selfless act.
But it seems to me like all the discipline in the world might not allow you to
do something like lift a car off of your child or dive on a grenade.
Well, yeah, I mean, I think you're actually a hundred percent right on. That's a theory. I think that
when you take guys in combat, when when when guys are in combat and guys do incredible things and
sacrifice their lives for their brothers, that that is not about discipline and
they're doing that because they're selfless and they want to take care of their friends.
That's what they're doing it for. And there can be people that are
undisciplined individuals that perform incredibly heroic things in combat.
So no, I don't think I don't think it's, I don't think it's, I think that's actually correct.
I mean, I think there's that's an extremely powerful force. And that may be
that. And I was thinking about
the power of that, where I thought you were going to say,
where I thought you were going to talk about it was, you weren't doing this for yourself.
You weren't doing this for yourself. You were doing this to get a message out there that you're
doing this to raise money for others, for your friends, for your brothers. That's that is a more
powerful thing than, hey, I'm just a self-disciplined person. Now, discipline is like,
it's like they're, they're indifferent. It's not apples to apples. I don't think it's not like,
it's not like this is more powerful than that. No, because I'll tell you that
if you want to perform well, if you want to achieve things, like you wouldn't be able to do this
for these causes, if you didn't have the discipline to train hard to eat right, to get on the path,
to stay on the path, you wouldn't have been able to do this. Even though you really wanted to,
even though you really, really wanted to, you really, really wanted to care about your brothers. You
really, really wanted to raise money for those funds. If you don't have the discipline to make it happen
and train yourself and be ready, that, that you wouldn't have been able to deliver that. Just like
a guy on the battlefield, they're on the battlefield because they, they were able to perform.
They were able to have the discipline to get to that point. But they're too, I'd say they're
related. I don't think they're, they're definitely not opposing each other. And in fact, I think that
if I was to tell you, you know, when I was in the seal teams, the actual driving force behind
the discipline that I tried to have myself wasn't for me. It was like, I want to be able to perform
well in the battlefield, not because I want to perform well, but because I want to make sure I don't
let my brothers down. So I would say it's actually like a force that's a foundational force.
You know, it's like people that are heavily, heavily religious. Their discipline relies on their
religious faith. People that are overachievers that want to accomplish something. Their discipline is
based on the fact that they want to get that achievement. So the discipline by itself,
there has to be something that the discipline, there has to be a foundation that that's built
upon. And I think a lot of times people build their foundation of discipline. The foundation
that their discipline is built on is actually the fact that they want to take care of their friends.
They want to be able to take care of their brothers. They want to take care of their family.
You get all kinds of, you know, you take a single mom that's working three jobs right now.
Well, she's has to be highly disciplined. She has to be highly disciplined. She's got to get up every
morning at three o'clock to get to the diner in time to start waiting tables. She's doing that.
She has that discipline not based on the fact that she wants to be stronger for herself.
She's doing that so she can feed her kids. She's doing that. She's doing that selflessly so that
she can feed her kids. So no, I mean, that's absolutely true. And I totally agree.
Good morning.
Yeah.
Supporting. Yeah, I think the the best way the way to get the most out of yourself is to figure out
a way to make it about something that you care about more than yourself.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think that discipline is a manifestation of selflessly.
Yes. In many ways. It's a way that you're like I said, a single mom that's working three jobs.
Look, let's face it. She doesn't want to work any of those three jobs.
She doesn't want to work any of those three jobs. But she's doing it. She's doing it every day
day and day out. Why is she doing that? She why is she just showing that discipline and
manifesting that discipline? Yeah. It's because she cares about her kids more than she cares about
herself. Yeah. And that's all there is to it. And you could go to the battlefield and say the same
thing. Why do why do why do you why do Marines train so hard? Yeah. Exactly. Why do we train hard
in the sealed teams? What why are we doing that? Are we doing that for ourselves? Are we imposing that
discipline on ourselves? Are we having the self discipline? Because we want to be good for ourselves?
No. It's because we want to be able to take care of our friends. We want to be able to take care of our
brothers and you could go across the board with any of that. So I totally agree with you. Awesome.
One glad that I'm still alive now. Check. But could they at any point come into conflict with each
other? Were you got to choose to remain disciplined or serve others? I don't see how they would
come in conflict with you. And if they did come in conflict, I think you make a rational decision.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I mean, hey, am I going to get sneak my workout in? Like what's more important
to me working out or going on a mission with my friends? Right. Or you're, I don't know,
daughters, piano or recital that they want you to be at, but you got it. You know, that's it's
that's it's a matter of time. You got to choose. Choose between what? Being disciplined with the
workout that day. Okay. I'm making the recital. Right. I mean, obviously you want to make the recital.
But if the, if the choice was between making the recital and you have to go to your job and work,
well, if you don't go to your job and work, that's what now you don't have money to pay for your
piano lessons in the first place. Yeah. Yeah. No matter if think about that, that's all I'm saying
that it is there a population where discipline and selflessness will come into conflict. I'm
just saying usually they support each other and for sure. I think you're right. But is there a circumstance?
Yes, there's there is there is you could actually become, you could actually focus on yourself and be like,
hey, it's more important for me to take care of me than it is for me to take care of my team.
And that's not going to go over well with the team and we may end up being a highly disciplined
individual. You have no, you have no outlet for it because you have no one to take care of if you're
except for yourself. And then that's the way you see like the, what's the, I haven't watched the movie,
but I know exactly, no, I'm serious. I haven't watched the movie. It's American psyched. Right.
Oh, I see, no, I haven't watched the movie, but I know exactly what the story is. The guy is like
super highly disciplined, right? Yeah. He's need to wait. He does everything highly disciplined. But at the
same time, obviously he's a psycho and he's, he's not supporting anyone but himself. Sure. So that's
like an extreme version of someone that cares about themselves. Right. Yeah, the sure they're highly
disciplined, but you know, being highly disciplined doesn't make you a good person. Yeah, it doesn't
automatically make you so well. Yeah, it doesn't make you self-listened. It certainly doesn't make
you a good person either. Yeah. And you could certainly get into a situation where you know,
you get people that are, uh, bank robbers. No, highly disciplined bank robbers. I wasn't thinking
big robbers, but you think, you know, the people that are so into working out that that trumps,
yeah, family, and that everything trumps everything. Yeah. And they, and they have an issue, right?
They're so into it that they, that they sacrifice, not even sacrifice. They just don't care.
Yeah, yeah. It's, uh, you know when you meet someone that's so into working out that, I mean, that's a
very selfish thing, right? Working out as a selfish thing, right? Now, there's part of it that's
self-less because you're working out so that you can stay healthy so that you can take care of your
family. You can take care of your friends like we just thought about. Yeah, but you can take that to a point.
Yeah, so you're capable of surviving and taking care of your friends and family. But you can
easily get to a point where hey, the most important thing is me. Yeah, my pull-up. The most important
thing is me and my numbers. Yeah, my numbers. And you know what, I was danger close to this
with Jiu Jitsu because for a while, I was like, I had come home at night and my wife would be like,
you know, this is I was still in the teams. Yeah. And I was, was a task unit commander like we,
I was, that that was the most important thing in my life. But I was still come home at night at 7
30 at night or 8 o'clock at night and I grabbed my gym bag and I'd go change Jitsu and my wife would be like,
what the hell is wrong with you? Yeah. Like, what are you doing? And that's that was borderline,
right? That was borderline. But for me, it was like, hey, this is a skill set that I should have
when I'm on the battlefield. So I can take care of myself and take care of my friends. And by the way,
that means I have a 1.001% chance that I'm going to come home instead of not come home. So I'm going to do it.
And that, you write there, that's probably a little bit of rationalization because, because
selfishly I really love training Jitsu. Yeah. So there's, there's a selfishness there and
I, that I just tried to rationalize a little bit. And, and you know, that's a good one.
Another thing we talked, we talked about the first podcast we do is rationalization and how
you got to be careful of that. You got to be careful of rationalizing everything. Yeah.
So yeah, those are those are things that definitely can get can become problematic. If you,
well, that's, you know what, that's why there's a dichotomy. That's why there's a dichotomy and
everything because you can go overboard with any personality trait you can go too far with.
Yeah. And you can definitely go that that's why I discipline and freedom. It's, it's actually
a balance. Even though discipline equals freedom, but guess what? If you have pure discipline,
if you, if you, if you remove all freedom, well, then what did you just do? In slaves. Yeah,
you enslaved. So you, there's balance. There's balance in, in, in, in discipline. There has to be
balance in discipline. I think the reason that it strikes people to talk about discipline
equals freedom is because most people don't make that connection. And most people lean so far
towards just freedom of doing whatever they want. That they end up enslaved from a different
direction. Yeah. Which is equally, if not more problematic. And I say more problematic, because now
you're in a situation where you're slave, you're enslaved by something that's not good. That's not
healthy. That's not positive. Whereas at least with discipline, if you're imposing the discipline
on yourself, self-discipline, well, then you're, you're imposing things on you that are at least
positive long term. At a minimum, they're positive long term. Yeah. Now, can you go overboard
that? Yes. There's people that have eating disorders, right? Oh, yeah. There's people that
have eating disorders. They, they impose so it's such strict discipline that they're unhealthy.
And that's bad. And that's horrible. You know, I've, I've heard back from some people that said,
hey, you know, I have trouble with eating disorders. You know, it's generally been females
who have more trouble with that category. And they actually have to use the discipline to say
the correct discipline thing to do is to eat more is to eat the proper amount of calories.
Because it's a horrible, horrible thing if you see people going through that. And it's a fatal disease,
right? It's a fatal disease. And so, so again, to your point, there's, you can become so disciplined
that it's, that it's negative. Yeah. It's negative on your personal health. It's negative on your,
you know, you can work yourself. You can work yourself so hard. You can say, I'm going to be
disciplined at work. And now you, you stop, you lose the balance and you start, stop working
out and you stop training and you start eating donuts. And you start eating donuts, not before
you've run a marathon, but before you sit down in your front of your computer. Yeah. So they're,
they're absolutely has to be balanced. But, factually, the, the tendency, the, the tendency is,
I'm going to be, I'm going to be less disciplined. And I'm going to do things that are easy.
I'm going to be in the easy path. And that leads to that's, that's the 80% 90%. I'm the 1%.
But that is a vast majority of people, vast majority of people don't need less discipline in their
lives. They need more discipline. That's the vast majority of people myself included.
Myself and good need more discipline, not less. Yeah. It's all most about what you're being
disciplined towards. So like in the, uh, the situation, bring up with the recital,
you have the competing, uh, thing. So maybe it actually takes more discipline to
forego your workout. Realize. Oh, yeah. Bigger picture. People will say to me like on, uh, on Twitter,
they'll say, uh, if you have real discipline, once you have the discipline to sleep into tomorrow.
Then get out of your comfort zone and sleep in. Oh, yeah, that's the different thing. But,
yes, so you'd have to look at the bigger, is there a bigger discipline then, right? Because you
got to, you got to consider your goals and stuff like that. You can't have the discipline to sleep in
if that doesn't benefit your goal. It's not even disciplined. Yeah. And like the person that's
struggling with the, uh, eating disorder, their discipline, first they were disciplined to lose weight.
Right. They need to change that discipline to be a healthy, right? Consider the goal. Yeah.
The goal, the goal needs to be healthy. What a scary thing.
We're scary thing. You look in the mirror and you, you think you're overweight and you're not.
Some guys get that the opposite for sure. The body, body dysmorphia, more fielder. Yeah.
Is that what it's called? Yeah. So you can have it like, you know, you think you're always,
you always think you're fat, but you're not skinny. And then the other way is like, you always think you're
skinny. So you need bigger muscles. So you, you know, so you get on the juice. Yeah. Whatever. Yeah.
Yeah. Asteroids. That's actually why we're here. But echo.
We talked about this earlier. Too much curl or big enough muscles. Yeah.
Thanks. My muscles are big. Thanks. Rob Joe.
It's still supportive.
Man, it's still still supportive.
You've seen it before you started cutting weight.
Yeah. Speaking of health and support and support.
Echo Charles. Is there any way that you could advise us how to support
each ourselves ourselves and each other and possibly we just support you.
Support. Yeah. We support you. We support you. We did actually one of the benefits of having
you on is your very supportive for you. Encouraging, you know, and I like that. But in the event of
people us wanting to support this podcast in addition to each other in addition to ourselves.
Or all at once, we can stay on Jocco Superkrill Oil. I thought you were going to say the path.
Well, yeah. The path. That's bigger picture for sure. And we'll talk about that. But one of the
methods to stand the path is krill oil. You can live a lot of weight to get a strong muscles.
Kind of like, um, like when you tear your skin apart, I guess. But if you're joined to all jack
up, they don't want to move. You know, lifting nothing. So, and this goes for everyday life. So
superkrill oil, jocquests uplements. Finally, superkrill oil, joint warfare. And discipline, which is a
pre-mission, what he cognate of enhancer, for a multiplier. Technically, what is for a small
to player mean? It's like when you get one thing and another and the sum is worth more than the
parts. Kind of. Yeah. You were so excited about that. I'm just going to let it roll. Anyway, three supplements,
right? Not counting the new one that's going to come out soon. So krill oil for your joints,
joint warfare for your joints and discipline, pre-mission. You take a cognitive enhancers,
a little bit caffeine in there. 15 kilograms. 15 milligrams. On the last. You drink multiple scoops.
Sure. Then it's third. I did an event the other night. And I was kind of tired going into it,
straight up. I was kind of tired. And it usually my events are during the day. But this is at night.
As I was kind of, you know, I'd flown out there and I was feeling a little bit sorry,
so I drank some discipline. And then I drank some more discipline. And I ended up having,
I guess there's a total sum total of about five scoops of discipline. Sure. So a few
much of discipline. 60 milligrams. But there's not just the discipline. Yeah. But anyways,
I got done with the event and went up to, you know, hung out with everyone for a little bit,
added a little dinner thing and then got done with that and then hung out and then went up to my room,
hotel room. And I just sat there. Yeah. Yeah. And the funny thing is I didn't realize. I was
why, because I had gotten up early in the morning, I worked out the travel, the bubble,
and I didn't realize why am I, why do I have energy right now? Why can't I sleep right now?
This is ridiculous. What's wrong with me? What's wrong with me? What's wrong with me? What's wrong with me?
And then, and then I didn't realize it till the next day, because I went to bed at one
30 in the morning, woke up at 430. And then I did like a stretch, came home. Jack's deal when I got
off. Of course. Yeah. I got home in the school, but which is nice, because my arm's been jacked up.
So I haven't been able to do, I still, I'm not doing overhead squats right now or even front squats.
Oh, right. I'm doing front squats with kettlebell. Yeah. If you don't want to have a bigger kettlebell
than other people, but whatever, sure. Sure. You got to be careful. Don't have the, if you're not
used to caffeine, because I'm not used to caffeine, because I only have jocowite, which has the same
15 milligrams, or discipline, if you're not used to caffeine, that little 15 milligrams, and you drink
up on you, but you're going to feel it. Don't drink it before you go to bed at night. Yeah. That's
my warning. Unless you have stuff to do. Let's get stuff to do. Yeah. Get after it. Yeah. You want
to balance the discipline. For sure. Yeah. You will not, you will feel sharp. That's what's good about
it. You feel sharp. It's fun. It's physically and mentally. When you or when someone says,
boy, I'm drinking the discipline, you ever watch space balls, show that show. Space ball
one. He's like liquid shorts. I can remember. It's like the shorts is the force. It's
the force. You know what space ball is? Yeah. Yeah. It's a parody. It's the force. It's the
shorts. Right? That's what it's the shorts. And then you have the liquid shorts. Oh, yeah.
So that's like the fuel or sorry for gays. This is a while ago. Anyway, that's how you sound when
you say I'm drinking the discipline. You can't drink the, you see what I'm saying? Yeah.
I think you meant to do that. Nonetheless, you get this at originmain.com on the top. It says
labs actually got emailed me. It was like, hey, I can't find the, I can't find the discipline. I
said look within yourself. Then I said the originmain.com on the top. It says labs. Just made a
funny. You like that. You know, I'm jumping back and forth. Anyway, that's where you get it.
Originmain.com. Also an originmain.com. They got some cool gays all made in America.
Rashcards. Compression gear. Tops and bottoms. Rashcards spats. Spats. Yeah. Moving the spats. Do they
have the black out yet? Yeah. I don't have any. You know, also look at the start planning
or schedule for the origin. Gigi to camp. Immersion camp. Yeah. It's not like a hard core. Like,
that's the thing. And that's what Pete kind of what old is what he was kind of telling me. Where
it's not like the kind. It's not like boot camp or something. Which would be cool too. It's not like a
training camp for like an event. I'm saying like you know, one guy's trying to read your training.
Yeah, yeah. We're training. We're training hard. But it's more like you're in there to immerse yourself
in your your you want to train hard. You want to learn hard. Yeah. Well, yeah. The case in point. There's
a lot of people that have never even trained before. Yeah. Literally have never trained before. Yeah.
Got up. They said, hey, before this morning's class, I need to get a G. Yeah. Yeah. I don't even have a G.
So yeah, that's an August. You can check on the website for that too. Come on up. Echo
Charles and I will be there. You want to go? Yeah. Okay. Cool. Come on. It's like this cool. Yeah. Yeah.
Don't you can start learning more than I taught you last time we did you did. Oh yeah. The two moves
are we. I have two jits who legs now. Oh, you do. So what do they look like? It's you like.
Because I told you got to get rid of like the hard thing. Yeah. They were just the hard sockets.
Right. And so I did was, you know, I had trouble standing up. Yeah. So what I did was I had these two.
I have the sockets that go on my legs. So what I have my process do it's cover them in foam.
And then so that's a little bit softer from people so I don't hurt anybody. And then
he made it so I could just stand on the ends of those sockets. So at the same height. Yeah. So the same height.
Awesome. And so now I'm using them to you. I haven't started taking jits too. Because I'm
really busy, but I'm going to I think once we get back my wife and I are going to start going in.
Awesome. And then I also use them to do some weightlifting stuff. I've been able to figure out how to do
squats off the ground. Nice squats. And yeah, so it's awesome. So I'll be ready.
Yeah. No, that is awesome. Yeah. Yeah. Because the biggest concern I had last time was the
shell had like a like a metal thing. Yeah, valve. And that thing was uncool. Oh yeah.
I mean, no, I didn't realize at the time that you were insulting me because that's how I do
not so after, not until after because the whole time you were after we rolled you were like,
oh yeah, you're really strong. You're really strong. And then a couple of times later,
it's a couple of podcasts later. You're like, oh, it's actually an insult. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. You don't have any technique, but you're strong. You know, one of the
tell I learned that was almost optimistic to a fault was that when we were all, he talked about this
before when we were all, I was like, there's gotta be a way that I can catch Jaco. There's gotta be
some way in that guy. Like, um, who was the guy that's missing his hand that we rolled with,
I rolled with after. Oh, Jeffrey. Yeah. Jeffrey, I had him in, I had him by the neck and I was like,
oh, dang, I got him. I can't believe that's like got him. And then afterwards, he's like,
there was no possible way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like I was somehow, somehow,
was it so optimistic about what I can do to fault? It is. And you're the, you're with so many people.
Yeah. But majority of people, especially with Jitsu, fall in that category and like, well,
and the other funny thing is you'll get somebody with something. And then they think to themselves,
if I could, if I just stop that, then I'll be able to win. I had a, I had a wrestler. This was
back in the day. I was like, I blew belt and I was going to get this wrestler, uh, you know,
like a really good college wrestler. And the look on his face every single time was just, okay,
let's go, let's go again. He was the first person that I realized that that's the normal reaction,
but especially for a wrestler because wrestling that wrestling college men, they've been dominating
people in high school, they've been dominating people in college. They know they, they understand
grappling. And so when they get, they get like, yeah, submitted. They just can't, they just don't even understand.
It seems like the one thing they ever thought before. And you know, and then, and I don't know,
you can, you can, you can give me some advice on this. Is it better? Because I've done it both ways.
Is it better to submit them with the same thing every single time, which I've done that,
or to submit them something new every single time, where they just are dumbfounded. Yeah,
I think the second one gets, especially giving what you said, because it's true, the wrestler,
he's going to have all this knowledge of grappling. So, and it makes sense, you know, so you see this
one weird thing that you never seen. In your mind, you're like, all right, that's just one weird kind of
rare kind of thing. It's a feeling. And then, but if you're like this thing, this thing, this thing,
this thing, it's like, okay, this world is opening up. No, okay, I understand,
you know, there's a lot of fluke. Yes, it wasn't just that one thing, like how you say that one thing.
I just got to stay away from his or putting my neck in there. Yeah, stay away from that. That's all.
So, it kind of depends, or, or, or deviates from that whole idea. So, we'll be having these discussions
and many more at the immersion camp in Maine in August. Okay, so yeah, it's right before school starts.
Yeah, so yeah, those are good fun. Yeah. You know, yeah, originmain.com. Check it out. Good
way to support. Also, Jockel talked about his new cool kettlebell that's heavier than my nonetheless.
I got the whole set on, you know, the, you know, the kettlebells I'm not wearing, but the
intimate, or the, the, the primal bells. You want to write whatever? Yeah, I wrote it. I think too,
it's like a cyclops in there too. Anyway, any more word on the Jockel head or is that,
they're not going to have a, yeah, it's still working part. We're in the idea phase on the, I'm still,
but yeah, that's good. But nonetheless, you want to whole set, go to on it.com slash Jockel. Really good
kettlebells on there. Other exercise stuff on there too. You want to switch up your workout.
I ran into that the other day, like, dangness workout is getting boring. So, I just beat you
through it. Yeah. And then did you, because it's good to do things and you brought this up before,
if you're not used to something, even though it's like, we talked about squats, like,
going all the way down, which is what I'm used to. If I was to do squats to, what does it pair
all the other deck? That's the standard. Yeah, the standard. And then those squats would actually
be a little bit harder for me for like a week or two weeks. And then I'd realize it going down in
the whole, as a place where we get, yeah. But, and it goes along with exactly what you're saying,
how like your brain has to do, it's called neuromuscular connection. Where if you're used to
doing a certain motion, you can do it way more efficiently. Put more weight on there. We're pretty
efficient, you know, and that's what gain, where gains come from. Yeah. Or a big part of where it
gains come from. So, yeah, you just, you just change the movement, just a little bit. Boom,
whole another thing, your body gotta get used to, more gains to be had. Well, that's the whole
theory of Westside Barbel, isn't they change their, the way they do something every three weeks.
They do that instead of doing the bench press the same exact way that they did that for three
weeks. And then the next three weeks, they do it wide. They do it with a different kind of bar.
They do it different range of motion. So, once you, they don't allow their by to totally adapt
and constantly changing and just kind of, yeah, there's pretty, there's a lot of cool ways you
can kind of manipulate that from work out to work out. But yeah, well, so yeah, if you want to
vary up your workout with all kinds of different movements on it, they have some cool stuff,
battle maces or no battle ropes, maces, some other stuff. Anyway, on it.com slash
juggle, good spot. Also, when you buy the books that we sometimes review on this podcast,
I got them all organized on juggle.cast.com in the book section, click just click through there,
it takes you to Amazon Amazon Prime. If you have it, and you know, get your book,
good way to support. If you do another shopping, continue. Do you shop in?
Buy that lawnmower you've been meeting to buy. Also, subscribe to the podcast if you haven't already,
seems obvious. I know. iTunes, Stitcher, Google Play, Spotify, and other podcasting,
providing podcast providing platforms. Also, on YouTube, because we do have a YouTube channel,
Rob Jun. I know you're on there sometime. We have excerpts. I think that's really one of the main
values is the excerpts. For sure. Because a lot of times, I mean, aside from seeing what you and
our guests look like, you know, the video version, whatever, the excerpts are shareable, and I didn't
realize how valuable that was with the sharing until when. I think it's a gradually increasing
understanding of the value overall. Nonetheless, I could go into all the people that say,
like, hey, could you make an answer for this, make an answer for this and make it?
Yeah, you're just starting to realize it. Maybe they had a reason for that. We'll just say
I'm realizing it more about that. Yeah. Nonetheless, good value there in my opinion, and a good
way to support so subscribe to the YouTube channel. If you want, also, Jocco as a store, if you didn't
know already, it's called JoccoStore. Go to joccoStore.com, and if you want the shirts that say
this plenty, close for you to get after it, or the shirt that Jocco always wears, the victory
of my man fitness, that's where you can get it. That's where you get it. JoccoStore.com. We need to
make gray ones of these. Great. Yeah. Great. Oh, like, you had their gray. I don't care. I don't know
what gray. Gray. Can we do that? Yeah, but that's a general term, you know, gray. It's like you can't
just say, hey, you know, you got to, you need gray shirts for the summer time that's coming.
I believe it's like, God, if there are 50 different shades of gray, there's a whole
f***, that's not good, right? Oh, they're doctorators. This guy, you know, he
for real doesn't know you're talking about you. That's the funny. It's a pop culture,
definitely. Yeah, 50 shades of gray. You know, nonetheless, I'll make the gray one. So there will
be a gray victory. MMA and fitness shirt available on JoccoStore.com soon. I like it. I promise.
Also some women stuff on there. Some patches. I just got the patches reordered so they
should be in there. You know, it starts running better now. It is. So, you know, check it out.
We're happy to hear that. Yeah, man. Yeah. It means a lot to us.
Coming up. Somebody's on there. Some rash guards on there for various activities, including
but not limited to jujitsu cycling. There is a guy on Twitter Instagram. I think he ran. I think
a marathon. I think. Nice. Representing with the representing big time with the get after a
rash guard. He said he did 50% better. 50%. Well, there you go. The fact that that's scientific.
Yeah, proof is in the pudding. So boom. Rashgarg. Yes. JoccoStore.com. Look at that stuff. I'm not
saying buy something. If you want something, get something. Good way to support. Also psychological
warfare. I'm going to explain what it is again. There's no problem for me. It is an album. Not a
musical. It's a spoken word album with tracks. And these tracks are for they ever were a purpose.
Not just entertainment. Like, oh, this is poetic. It is poetic. But that's not the purpose.
The purpose is for each track is to get you through. When you're on the path on the campaign
against weakness, you'll run into these moments of weakness. Right? Just little insert weakness
in surgeons. If you will, you know, they show up every once in a while. So you listen to a
specific track designated for a certain type of weakness that'll creep in. And the track is
Jocco telling you why you should overcome this weakness. Why? Kind of how as well. It's not
talking yelling at you. It's just a pragmatic kind of in a way. These steps to take to overcome
these weaknesses. Boom. 100% 100% 100% 100% what you saw success rate on that one in my experience.
100% good way to support. You can also get Jocco White T on Amazon. It's called Jocco White T.
And that's for people that want to deadlift 8000 pounds. And this is another scientifically
proven factually double blind spot placebo placebo proven somebody on or I don't want to say
somebody. Okay, there's this guy you deadlift. I don't know he deadlifted a bunch. Oh, yeah.
Yeah. What's that? Who's that guy? He's huge. He's a huge. The horn for yeah. That's or B.
Ornston. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He just won the Arnold classic. Yeah. He won the Arnold
classic. So I've been seeing a lot of that video in the year. Yeah. Yeah. You know, it's a lot of
people are wanting to test him. Oh, the Jocco White T. Oh, the Jocco White T. Yeah.
They don't have it. No, you can't. You won't test. It doesn't test positive. Yeah. Yeah. So
he's the only deadlift. The test is the deadlift. Yeah. The only deadlift. Yeah. He only did a little bit.
Yeah. They smell those things before he just said. Yeah. The T that he just snored.
Yeah. So that's Jocco White T. You can get that. But that's coming in a can.
Yeah. By the way, but it's going to it's it's in starting production. It takes a long time.
But by the summertime, you'll be getting Jocco White T in a can like a like one of the other
energy drinks. That just fill you with sugar and get you crazy. No, this is going to fill you with
antioxidants. A little bit of caffeine and some good tastes. So yeah, that's coming. Let's see
what else books speaking of books on Amazon or wherever. Way the warrior kid. You should have that
book for all children. Right. Is there any children? Is there any child in the world that doesn't
need way the warrior kid? No. Didn't think so. So get that and speaking of way the warrior kid
there's a new way of the warrior kid that is out right now available for preorder. So
get it and one of the things that I would like to do. Everyone tells me things like
everyone should get way the warrior kid. Every kid should read this book. Every kid should read
this book and high school or in their school. People say that to me all the time.
Because it's very simple clear lessons that everybody should absorb. And it would help. It would
help me if I had that book. It would help everybody when they had that book and they were younger.
So want to get this book out there in to more kids. One of the best ways to do that. If you order
way the warrior kid to marks mission, order it from different sources. Get it from Amazon,
get it from Barnes Noble, go to your local bookstore and say, hey, can you please order this book
for me? We want to get it spread out where a bunch of different outlets are seeing the demand for it.
That will increase the publicity that the book receives and it will get into more kids hands.
That's my goal is to get more kids to read. Way the warrior kid and to read Mark's mission.
So do that. It's live. I'll also speak in a warrior kid. If you want to support a warrior
kid, there's a warrior kid that's a farmer and a businessman. And he's making soap from goat milk.
Why? Because he's getting after it. You can order some of that at irishokes ranch.com
and the motto because he makes he doesn't just make soap. He makes jacos soap. Sure. Yeah.
Hey, he wanted to make good soap. I quote, I want to make good soap. G-O-O-D capitalized.
So he makes jacos soap. Smells like coconut, by the way. Really?
Yeah, because I like the smell of coconut. Yeah, is there coconut in it? Here's I didn't find it
to smell like coconut. It smells, it's the old. You don't think it smells like coconut? Well, maybe
you have a more sensitive Hawaiian. Yeah, old factory. Old factory sense situation. Yeah. But
the motto for jacos soap. Stakely. Just funny goes freedom, field manual. Again, you know,
I was traveling around. I signed a lot of these books and I just traveled around when I was
in Australia. A lot of people brought it in and that was awesome. A lot of great feedback.
One thing that's good, if you have that book and you like it and it's helped you,
get it for someone else that you know that that wants to get on the path or should be on the path.
So that's pretty easy to do. Also the audio version of that book does not exist on audible.com.
It exists on iTunes. Amazon, use a Google Play, other MP3 platforms.
It's an album with tracks. That's why we did it that way. And finally, of course, extreme ownership,
the new version of extreme ownership is out. The black one, which looks cool. It's got a little
excerpt, new beginning. It's got an excerpt of Q&A from this podcast in the back, which is solid.
How long is that part of it? I don't want to say, I mean, how much do you think is there's eight
questions? I mean, and there, you know, answers, which is pretty robust. And it's fairly robust. Yeah.
Yeah. And speaking of leadership, we have a company, echelon front. We solve problems
through leadership. That's what we do. And we do it all the time. It's me,
Lave Babin, JPDNL, Dave Burke. You can email info at echelon front.com or you can go to our website
echelon front.com. And of course, there is the master, which is a leadership gathering,
a leadership seminar, a leadership conference. What do you learn there? Pragmatic
leadership skills, so you can win. That's where you learn. We're only doing to this year.
We're doing one in Washington, DC. You come in May 17th and 18th. Yeah. Okay. So you can come meet
V Rob Jones. And then we're doing one in San Francisco October 17th and 18th. The DC one by the way,
right now is already it's more than half sold out right now. So these are both going to sell out,
just like all the events that we've done have sold out. So if you want to come register,
as quick as you can, extreme ownership.com. We'll see you there. And until the
master, if you want to hang with us, we are on the interwebs. We are on Twitter. We are on Instagram.
And we are on that. Facy. Boy. Echo is at echelon Charles. I am at Jockawilik. And of course,
Rob Jones is at Rob Jones journey. And he also has Rob Jones journey.com. And on top of that,
Rob Jones has his own podcast now. Yeah. He's one episode. He's one episode deep. One episode
deep. He's on the path. Yeah. The podcast is called Use the Way. Yep. Oh, that's good. Yeah.
Remember the way which is. Wait till you see the logo. Yeah. Yeah. So you can get that wherever
MP3 or sorry podcasts are available. I've listened to the first episode. You talk about
getting after it. Oh, yeah. And yeah, you talk about how to get through a lot of things. So it's
it's awesome. Can I add to that? I'm, it's kind of an advice style podcast right now, or people
ask me questions. So all those people listen to this. You know, you're sending question after
question to Jockawilik. He just refuses to answer. He reads it and then just throws it in the track.
No, just kidding. But yeah, if anybody has questions that they want to get answered by me,
then send them to me at Rob Jones journey at gmail.com or through my website or through social media.
And I will answer them. Use gave out your website on this. That's awesome. Yeah.
Oh, my email. Yeah. Oh, that's my, that's my special email. That's not like my person. That's my
email that I give out first stuff like this. It also helps to keep it kind of separated.
So yeah, all my questions I can just check it out. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You're going to have to
shift. Yeah. I have to shift. Oh, I have to shift. Dang. Yeah. I got to learn that. Listen to
a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I miss anything else from your various platforms. Oh, I mean,
I am working on a book, too. Oh, awesome. It's there's no real, uh, you know, date to release data
anything, but I'm hoping it's going to be a book about veterans and the positive and just continuing
to create that story that I was talking about earlier about, just telling that side of the coin
about veterans that come home and are fine. Yeah. And I'm hoping it's going to be right now. I'm
kind of making it kind of like you ever read anything by by Play-Doh. Oh, yeah. I just like basically
all of his writing is conversation that Socrates had. So I'm hoping I'm going to make it kind of
like that where it's just basically this series of conversations between two people. You know what's
and this I just thought this while you were saying this because I think this is another important
thing about on that exact subject. And we were talking earlier about these two categories of
like the vet comes that that comes home and he's good in the vet that comes home and he's a little
little a little bit off track. Yeah. But I would like to say and and I know you're going to agree with
this 100%. Just because you're a little bit off track doesn't mean you're going to get you can't
easily get back on track or the I've known all kinds of veterans that they were off track a little
bit for a little while and then they figured out and they get back on track. They find a new mission.
So, you know, the guys and that's actually fairly common in my in my from what I've seen and actually
talking a lot of guys that that went through Vietnam and they'd come home from Vietnam and they
were a little messed up when they got home, you know, and they got through it, got over it,
and got it out of their system and moved on. And again, we've talked about I've talked about this
before, you know, when you got done with World War II, you sat on a ship with a bunch of other
vets for six weeks and you debriefed everything on a ride home and you got that out of your system
and you got to communicate and you got you moved through it mentally. Vietnam, they didn't have
that opportunity Vietnam. It was, oh yeah, you're in Vietnam today and then tomorrow you're in San Francisco,
alone, by the way, you're not with anybody else. You're not with any other veterans. Nowadays,
we do a pretty good job of when you come home, you're coming home with your unit, you stay together,
you have people to talk to that have the common experience. But yeah, to the vets out there that are
thinking, oh man, I feel like I might be one of those guys that's not on the right track right now.
You can get back on the right track and it's it's finding your new mission and moving down that path
towards towards achieving it and just try and everything that you possibly can. Like for me,
it's easy to figure out what I needed to do because there was a system in place and it's a obvious
physical injury but with the mental injuries we don't exactly know how to fix them yet, but
you just have to keep trying this. All right, dry talking about with their vests, didn't work, all right,
I try, you know, hyperbolic chambers or whatever, try this, try that, try that,
and because just because you tried one thing and it didn't work out doesn't mean that you don't want to,
that doesn't mean that you now are fine with, you know, nightmares and stuff you just got to keep
trying everything until everything is exhausted. Yeah, and I'll tell you, I've, I've
in talking to Jordan Peterson, the couple times we've had him out here, into listening to him,
in reading his book, it's become very obvious to me and it's sort of reflective of something
that Dakota Meyer said on the podcast, which is like, hey, your brain, your mentality, your
psychology is a system and just like, just like you have a system to move through and you have
a physical injury to get healed or get corrected. Well, this is the same thing with your
psychological state and if that psychological state is off a little bit, well there's things that
there's people that know how to fix it. If you listen to when Jordan's talking about the way that
he would bring someone through a problem, there's a systematic way to do that. And I never really
understood that until I started listening to him because when they'd send us to the psychologist
to debrief a deployment, you know, for me it was just sort of, you know, I had the negative attitude
of all this, I'm not going to tell this guy anything because I don't want them to think I'm
crazy and I don't want to get, you know, put on whatever, you know, thing. And so I just was, hey,
I'm just going to move forward. And that's the worst sort of my eye, I didn't, and I'll tell you
when I was in, that was a very common attitude. Was, hey, look, I'm not going to tell this
psychologist does know what I've been through. So I'm not going to tell him anything. That was
a very common. And again, I think for me listening to Jordan because I would have been, you know,
two years ago or a year ago before I started listening to Jordan Peterson talk, I never really
saw the connection. And then it really solidified it when I heard Dakota talking about it saying,
look, this is a, I put the two and two together when I heard Dakota talking about it, like,
there's people just like if you wanted to get good at Olympic lifting, you'd go to an Olympic,
if you tried to figure that out on your own, it would take you forever and you might get hurt,
you might get hurt worse. Whereas if you went to a real Olympic lifting coach and said, hey,
I want to learn the clean and jerk in the snatch, they would say, okay, here's where we're going to
start. We're going to start with the PVC pipe and then we're going to go through the motions. They're
going to get better at this. And then we're going to do high poles. They're going to walk you through
the whole system. And a psychologist will do that with your brain. They'll say, oh, okay, I see what
you're scared of needles as the, the example Jordan Peterson again. Here's what we're going to do to
get you used to needles. Well, when you come back from a traumatic event, here's some things that we
can do to revisit that. And I think the same thing that you talked about earlier with like movies,
I think that part of my prejudice against psychologists came from the way that they're portrayed in
movies as being like, you know, sitting on this couch and like these weird people that, you know,
and it's not, it's more pragmatic than that. These it seems that way to me. So,
look at trainer kind of alertly. Yeah, you have a trainer or more like a more like a coach, right?
Yeah, more like a coach or more like a jiu-jitsu instructor. Yeah, that's saying like, hey,
here's what you need to do here. You call this position. Here's what you need to do. The psychologist says,
oh, you're having, you're having bad dreams about this. Okay, let's try these things. I don't know what
those things are because I don't know, not a psychologist, but they do know. Yeah. They do know what
to tell you to do. And they do know how to help you get through those things. And just like
jiu-jitsu or just like athletic training or just like Olympic lifting, it's going to vary
for different people and a good psychological coach is going to have a know how to make those adjustments.
And say, oh, you're feeling this a little bit more. Oh, it's because you came from this kind of family.
So, this is what's going to help you. But you came from a different family. So, this is going to
help you a little different way. So, I think those things are important to think about. And again,
I just wanted to re-emphasize the point that just because you might be in a rut as a,
either as a vet or just as a human being, you know, there's every little decision you make.
You can start moving in the right direction and moving towards a better place in your life and
everything that you're doing. So, just wanted to bring that out. Echo, you got any other anything else?
All good. Good to see you again. Well, man, so it's so awesome to be here. Just be included among
the people that you guys deem worthy of, you know, takes a long time to do this. It takes a lot of
preparation. And it's just for you guys to take that time and spend it on preparing to have me as
a guest. It's a huge compliment. You're generous. You're generous. You're generous. You're generous.
For us, do you got any other closing thoughts? Yeah, I just want to point out that, you know,
on the one here in the hot seat. And I'm getting all the accolades. And, but, you know, I didn't,
I didn't do anything that I've accomplished without people help me. I like to, it's kind of like a
pyramid. Like, I'm the tip of the pyramid. I'm like the thing that everybody likes to see.
That's the top of the pyramid. But there's a whole gigantic base underneath this pyramid that
if the tip didn't have it, then the tip would just be a stupid rock. And so, you know, I
all the way since my recovery, you know, I've had supporting people and my family and
especially on this month of marathon, I just did it. If my wife hadn't been there, if Pam hadn't
been there, then it's not happening at all. I mean, there's some things that I could say,
you know, I could have done it, but it wouldn't have been as good, but this thing would not have
happened without her. See, I mean, I totally gave her the reins. I, you know, I set it up and if there
was any question she had about overall, you know, vision for what I was trying to accomplish, she would
ask me, but like when we had a couple hiccups along the way, and I just totally 100% trusted her
that she'd be able to take care of it, and she did every single time. And she, I'm sure I'm not
given even enough credit. I don't, I'm just, there's probably a thousand things that she did. I don't
even know about yet. But I mean, I just owe her a huge, and then also my mom, the same thing,
you know, just being willing to withstand a month in an RV with four people, you know, and probably
putting up with me being grumpy, whatever, and you know, and pain and stuff, and I couldn't have
imagined having, you know, two people along with me that that would have made it better, or that
I would have trusted as much, and then also my buddy that drove, and then just all the people that
kept me going that ran with me, and, you know, deemed me worthy of their time, and the people
that sent me messages of encouragement that couldn't make it out. I just owe everybody a huge
debt of gratitude, and I'm going to do my best to continue to keep fighting and earn that respect,
and earn that earn their effort, earn their sacrifices as much as I can.
Awesome. Well, obviously Rob, it's an honor to have you back on here again. I look forward to
whatever the hell kind of crazy thing. You do next. I'm not sure what it's going to be, but I'm
sure it'll be something awesome. And of course, thanks to everyone for listening to this podcast,
thanks to the service men and women that are holding the line day and night, day and night,
fighting against evil, thanks to police law enforcement firefighters, paramedics,
other first responders that are always on call, always on call, to protect us here at home, and to
it, everyone that's listening, I want to refer to one last journal entry that Rob wrote
in something that we talked about the last time that he was on, that that was using the weight
because the weight of the world can be heavy. The weight of the challenges and the trials of life
can drive you into the ground and that weight can wear you down and break you.
But instead of letting the weight wear you down instead of letting the weight break you,
you can use the weight to make yourself stronger to make yourself tougher to make yourself
better. And that is what I recommend everyone does just like Rob says,
use the weight. Now get out there and get after it. And until next time, this is Rob Jones
and Echo and Jocco out.